which is still a marvel to more experienced people than oliver twist, every day of their lives.
she’s all right now,” said sikes, laying her down in a corner.
curses on your head, and black death on your heart, you imp!
claypole’s habit to repose a blind and foolish confidence in anybody, it should be observed, in justice to that gentleman, that he had trusted charlotte to this extent, in order that, if they were pursued, the money might be found on her: which would leave him an opportunity of asserting his innocence of any theft, and would greatly facilitate his chances of escape.
sikes, founded upon the singular coincidence of “jemmies” being a can name, common to them, and also to an ingenious implement much used in his profession.
this,” said the fellow, producing one, “this is the infallible and invaluable composition for removing all sorts of stain, rust, dirt, mildew, spick, speck, spot, or spatter, from silk, satin, linen, cambric, cloth, crape, stuff, carpet, merino, muslin, bombazeen, or woollen stuff.
i’d send them one and all to—” “never mind where,” interposed mr.
as they passed sunbury church, the clock struck seven.
there was a faint glimmering of the coming day in the sky; but it rather aggravated than relieved the gloom of the scene: the sombre light only serving to pale that which the street lamps afforded, without shedding any warmer or brighter tints upon the wet house-tops, and dreary streets.
shortly remarking that their roads were different, he departed, without more ceremony than an emphatic repetition of the hour of appointment for the following night.
the first question is, of what nature was her communication?
the bewildered butler gazed from them towards oliver, and from oliver towards mr.
if fervent prayers, gushing from hearts overcharged with gratitude, be heard in heaven—and if they be not, what prayers are!
it’s all bought up as fast as it can be made,” said the fellow.
for, suppose he were apprehended, we have no proof against him.
the child meekly raised his eyes, and encountered those of mr.
he hurried off, and walked till he almost dropped upon the ground; then lay down in a lane, and had a long, but broken and uneasy sleep.
you will make me happier than i can tell you,” replied the young lady.
only think,” said fagin, shrugging his shoulders, and stretching out his hands; “only consider.
as his eyes wandered to the gallery, he could see the people rising above each other to see his face: some hastily applying their glasses to their eyes: and others whispering their neighbours with looks expressive of abhorrence.
i believe it none the less because that nook is in a church, and she was weak and erring.
they’ll be able to make us useful some way or another.
this wish was immediately gratified, for a policeman stepped forward who had seen the prisoner attempt the pocket of an unknown gentleman in a crowd, and indeed take a handkerchief therefrom, which, being a very old one, he deliberately put back again, after trying it on his own countenance.
a creature,” continued the young man, passionately, “a creature as fair and innocent of guile as one of god’s own angels, fluttered between life and death.
they stood uncovered by a grave; and there was a mother—a mother once—among the weeping train.
brownlow coughed impatiently; which appeared to afford mr.
covering her face with her hands, she sank upon a sofa, and gave vent to the tears which she was now unable to repress.
i believe,” interposed miss maylie, “that at this period of our interview, i need not give that gentleman the trouble of going away.
in some villages, large painted boards were fixed up: warning all persons who begged within the district, that they would be sent to jail.
as it came on very dark, he began to think of all the men he had known who had died upon the scaffold; some of them through his means.
being remarkably free and agreeable in their manners, oliver thought them very nice girls indeed, as there is no doubt they were.
then the jew, in an agony of impatience, watched every morsel he put into his mouth; pacing up and down the room, meanwhile, in irrepressible excitement.
perhaps i do, my dear,” said the jew, with a shrill chuckle.
in a frying-pan, which was on the fire, and which was secured to the mantelshelf by a string, some sausages were cooking; and standing over them, with a toasting-fork in his hand, was a very old shrivelled jew, whose villainous-looking and repulsive face was obscured by a quantity of matted red hair.
jingling and clattering, till distance rendered its noise inaudible, and its rapid progress only perceptible to the eye, the vehicle wound its way along the road, almost hidden in a cloud of dust: now wholly disappearing, and now becoming visible again, as intervening objects, or the intricacies of the way, permitted.
bumble had already arrived, accompanied by four men from the workhouse, who were to act as bearers.
its expression had lost nothing of its beauty; but it was changed; and there was an anxious haggard look about the gentle face, which it had never worn before.
you haven’t opened the parcel and swallowed one or two as you come along, have you?
oliver got up; walked across the room; and stooped for an instant to raise the pitcher.
he followed mechanically to the end of the dock, and sat down on a chair.
bumble, holding his lantern a foot above the ground, walked not only with remarkable care, but with a marvellously light step for a gentleman of his figure: looking nervously about him for hidden trap-doors.
bumble, checking himself, with native majesty, “this is them wicious paupers!
one of the frightened servants chose to take it into his head, that he had something to do with this attempt to break into the house; but it’s nonsense: sheer absurdity.
a strange interview, which is a sequel to the last chamber the girl’s life had been squandered in the streets, and among the most noisome of the stews and dens of london, but there was something of the woman’s original nature left in her still; and when she heard a light step approaching the door opposite to that by which she had entered, and thought of the wide contrast which the small room would in another moment contain, she felt burdened with the sense of her own deep shame, and shrunk as though she could scarcely bear the presence of her with whom she had sought this interview.
there is something in that boy’s face,” said the old gentleman to himself as he walked slowly away, tapping his chin with the cover of the book, in a thoughtful manner; “something that touches and interests me.
tommy chitling hasn’t won a point; and i went partners with him against the artful and dumb.
bumble said this, he put on a grim and threatening look, and added, in a low voice, “mind what i told you, you young rascal!
containing further particulars concerning the pleasant old gentleman, and his hopeful pupils it was late next morning when oliver awoke, from a sound, long sleep.
yes, i know you are,” said the gentleman: “you’re hungry too, an’t you?
his mind was evidently wandering to his old life, for he continued to mutter, without appearing conscious of their presence otherwise than as a part of his vision.
i promise you that in that case, if the truth is forced from him, there the matter will rest; there must be circumstances in oliver’s little history which it would be painful to drag before the public eye, and if the truth is once elicited, they shall go scot free.
with these and other ejaculations of the same kind, mr.
these words appeared to be addressed to the young lady, and were perhaps uttered with the view of affording nancy time to recover herself.
it was a small paved yard into which they turned; and here they encountered a stout man with a bunch of whiskers on his face, and a bunch of keys in his hand.
the intelligence should be brought to bear upon him, that he could never even guess.
she was bending eagerly over the woman to hear her reply; but drew back, instinctively, as she once again rose, slowly and stiffly, into a sitting posture; then, clutching the coverlid with both hands, muttered some indistinct sounds in her throat, and fell lifeless on the bed.
it all lies in a nutshell my dear; in a nutshell, take the dodger’s word for it.
sikes had stared at one another in a disconcerted manner; “you,—you’re more clever than ever tonight.
bumble put on his cocked hat wrong side first, in a fever of parochial excitement; and flounced out of the shop.
above stairs, the remainder of the evening passed cheerfully away; for the doctor was in high spirits; and however fatigued or thoughtful harry maylie might have been at first, he was not proof against the worthy gentleman’s good humour, which displayed itself in a great variety of sallies and professional recollections, and an abundance of small jokes, which struck oliver as being the drollest things he had ever heard, and caused him to laugh proportionately; to the evident satisfaction of the doctor, who laughed immoderately at himself, and made harry laugh almost as heartily, by the very force of sympathy.
bumble, somewhat less pompously, for it was gratifying to his feelings to observe the effect his eloquence had produced; “come, oliver!
nobody, my dear,” replied the jew; “not a soul, tom.
miss betsy accordingly withdrew; and left the party to their repose.
bumble instantaneously turned back his collar again; laid his hat and stick upon a chair; and drew another chair up to the table.
yes, sir,” replied oliver, in a low, tremulous voice.
as oliver accompanied his master in most of his adult expeditions too, in order that he might acquire that equanimity of demeanour and full command of nerve which was essential to a finished undertaker, he had many opportunities of observing the beautiful resignation and fortitude with which some strong-minded people bear their trials and losses.
charlotte uttered a scream, and hid her face in her apron.
noah, with well-affected dismay, and in tones so loud and agitated, that they not only caught the ear of mr.
give me the other,” said sikes, seizing oliver’s unoccupied hand.
there was no other person in the room but the old jew, who was boiling some coffee in a saucepan for breakfast, and whistling softly to himself as he stirred it round and round, with an iron spoon.
and here, noah writhed and twisted his body into an extensive variety of eel-like positions; thereby giving mr.
corney,” said this young gentleman, as the matron entered.
jew, falling instantly, into the attitude of listening he had assumed upon his trial.
bull’s-eye wagged his tail in acknowledgment of this unusually endearing form of speech; and, giving vent to another admonitory growl for the benefit of oliver, led the way onward.
cause the government, as cares for the lives of such men as you, as haven’t half the pluck of curs, lets a man kill a dog how he likes,” replied sikes, shutting up the knife with a very expressive look; “that’s why.
but the father gets lagged; and then the juvenile delinquent society comes, and takes the boy away from a trade where he was earning money, teaches him to read and write, and in time makes a ’prentice of him.
he had a decided propensity for bullying: derived no inconsiderable pleasure from the exercise of petty cruelty; and, consequently, was (it is needless to say) a coward.
i have been deceived, before, in the objects whom i have endeavoured to benefit; but i feel strongly disposed to trust you, nevertheless; and i am more interested in your behalf than i can well account for, even to myself.
sikes to sleep, hurried on her self-imposed mission to rose maylie, there advanced towards london, by the great north road, two persons, upon whom it is expedient that this history should bestow some attention.
he made no answer: being occupied mentally bewailing the loss of the flute, which had been confiscated for the use of the county: so nancy passed on to the next cell, and knocked there.
oliver nearly swooned after this frightful scene, and was so weak that for an hour or more, he had not the strength to walk.
fagin was sufficiently well acquainted with the manners and customs of that particular species of humanity to which nancy belonged, to feel tolerably certain that it would be rather unsafe to prolong any conversation with her, at present.
bumble, whom the gin-and-water had rendered facetious.
i feel strongly on this subject, sir,” said the irritable old gentleman, drawing off his gloves.
giles, who affected to be busy about the luggage, listened with greedy ears.
i never lock up my money, for i’ve got none to lock up, my dear—ha!
it is worthy of remark, as illustrating the importance we attach to our own judgments, and the pride with which we put forth our most rash and hasty conclusions, that, although mr.
sunbury was passed through, and they came again into the lonely road.
the landlord reciprocated the old man’s laugh; and returned to his guests.
the dog obeyed the significant beck of his finger, and they drew off, stealthily, together.
the one little, little, little word, my blessed corney?
he followed up this remarkable declaration, by shaking his head in a waggish manner for ten minutes, as though he were remonstrating with himself for being such a pleasant dog; and then, he took a view of his legs in profile, with much seeming pleasure and interest.
something not too trying for the strength, and not very dangerous, you know.
losberne, who had been out walking, and just then returned, tumbled over the hedge after them, and picking himself up with more agility than he could have been supposed to possess, struck into the same course at no contemptible speed, shouting all the while, most prodigiously, to know what was the matter.
we must make up for lost time when we’ve got things into a good train.
chitling did the same: for the house of correction becomes fatiguing after a week or two.
there are three there, bill, with a jolly large blue unicorn and gold pitchfork on ’em: which is the old lady’s arms.
the boy stirred, and smiled in his sleep, as though these marks of pity and compassion had awakened some pleasant dream of a love and affection he had never known.
blathers and duff; and actually put on his hat preparatory to sallying forth to obtain the assistance of those worthies.
there were some ragged children in another corner; and in a small recess, opposite the door, there lay upon the ground, something covered with an old blanket.
the rose and honeysuckle clung to the cottage walls; the ivy crept round the trunks of the trees; and the garden-flowers perfumed the air with delicious odours.
i lost the boy, and no efforts of mine could recover him.
grimwig all ready to receive them, kissing the young lady, and the old one too, when they got out of the coach, as if he were the grandfather of the whole party, all smiles and kindness, and not offering to eat his head—no, not once; not even when he contradicted a very old postboy about the nearest road to london, and maintained he knew it best, though he had only come that way once, and that time fast asleep.
and then followed a full description of oliver’s dress, person, appearance, and disappearance: with the name and address of mr.
i heard the doctor tell them i was dying,” replied the child with a faint smile.
sowerberry,” said the beadle, as he thrust his thumb and forefinger into the proffered snuff-box of the undertaker: which was an ingenious little model of a patent coffin.
grimwig disappeared with the two old women: “i hope that this unfortunate little circumstance will not deprive me of my porochial office?
when she reached the more wealthy quarter of the town, the streets were comparatively deserted; and here her headlong progress excited a still greater curiosity in the stragglers whom she hurried past.
sowerberry: bethinking herself of oliver’s old friend.
laying great stress on the repetition of these two words, mr.
he had hardly achieved this very unusual gymnastic performance, when mr.
while he was thus engaged, and the two men sat by in silence with their eyes fixed upon the floor, a pattering noise was heard upon the stairs, and sikes’s dog bounded into the room.
the noise of footsteps on the creaking stairs, a few minutes after the occurrence of this conversation, roused the merry old gentleman as he sat over the fire with a saveloy and a small loaf in his hand; a pocket-knife in his right; and a pewter pot on the trivet.
damn that ’ere bag,” said the guard; “are you gone to sleep in there?
you’re getting too proud to own me afore company, are you?
the jew then, taking leave of his affectionate friend, returned homeward, attended by nancy and the boys: mr.
some houses which had become insecure from age and decay, were prevented from falling into the street, by huge beams of wood reared against the walls, and firmly planted in the road; but even these crazy dens seemed to have been selected as the nightly haunts of some houseless wretches, for many of the rough boards which supplied the place of door and window, were wrenched from their positions, to afford an aperture wide enough for the passage of a human body.
don’t you know the devil when he’s got a great-coat on?
the two gentlemen hastily separated; each in a fever of excitement wholly uncontrollable.
master charles bates, appalled by sikes’s crime, fell into a train of reflection whether an honest life was not, after all, the best.
charley, do nothing but skulk about, till you bring home some news of him!
if not, and you appeal to my forbearance, and the mercy of those you have deeply injured, seat yourself, without a word, in that chair.
come up to me tomorrow morning at ten o’clock, my dear.
and about—” “oh, ah, it’s all planned,” rejoined sikes, interrupting him.
bumble, when he first carried him to the workhouse from the farm.
brownlow, preceding them, led the way into a back-room.
bumble laid upon the table the papers he had brought to town.
sikes; “but i must have some blunt from you tonight.
ay, my man,” said the gentleman in the white waistcoat, with a condescending smile.
toby crackit brought himself into a sitting posture, and demanded who that was.
as he arrived at this apostrophe, he again rolled upon the door-step, and laughed louder than before.
grimwig, which that eccentric gentleman cordially reciprocated.
he then relapsed into his former state; nor did he rouse himself until his attention was again awakened by the voice of his partner.
bumble’s arms; and that gentleman in his agitation, imprinted a passionate kiss upon her chaste nose.
gamfield, with a partially washed face, on the other; while two or three bluff-looking men, in top-boots, were lounging about.
he’s sulky,” replied sikes, giving him a shake; “he’s sulky.
the old lady smilingly returned his salutation, and, closing the door, went back to her own room.
from all of these tokens oliver concluded that a long time ago, before the old jew was born, it had belonged to better people, and had perhaps been quite gay and handsome: dismal and dreary as it looked now.
scared by the sudden breaking of the dead stillness of the place, and by a loud cry which followed it, oliver let his lantern fall, and knew not whether to advance or fly.
i didn’t take it,” stammered noah, no longer stretching out his legs like an independent gentleman, but coiling them up as well as he could under his chair; “it was all her doing; yer’ve got it now, charlotte, yer know yer have.
oliver knew not the cause of this sudden exclamation; for, not being strong enough to bear the start it gave him, he fainted away.
wine-stains, fruit-stains, beer-stains, water-stains, paint-stains, pitch-stains, mud-stains, blood-stains!
it’s your fancy,” said the jew, taking up the light and turning to his companion.
the receding footsteps of the speaker were heard; and, in another minute, the form of mr.
to think that my dear good aunt should have been the means of rescuing any one from such sad misery as you have described to us, would be an unspeakable pleasure to me; but to know that the object of her goodness and compassion was sincerely grateful and attached, in consequence, would delight me, more than you can well imagine.
i never knew her like this, for such a little cause.
the latter gentleman, who did not appear quite so much accustomed to good society, or quite so much at his ease in it—one of the two—seated himself, after undergoing several muscular affections of the limbs, and the head of his stick into his mouth, with some embarrassment.
jew, goaded by these reproaches; “a mischief worse than that, if you say much more!
the footsteps approached nearer; they reached the landing.
then, the nightcap once again appeared: and the same voice called oliver by his name.
oliver was but too glad to make himself useful; too happy to have some faces, however bad, to look upon; too desirous to conciliate those about him when he could honestly do so; to throw any objection in the way of this proposal.
here it is, sir,” said oliver, showing it in his hand.
then it hasn’t been properly gone about,” said the jew, turning pale with anger.
each little bridge (and there were three in sight) bent beneath the weight of the crowd upon it.
don’t put on an injured look at the question; you’ve done it many a time.
with these injunctions, he pushed the rattling door with his shoulder, and entered the house, followed by his companion.
bumble stopped short; for he was curious to know the stranger’s name, and thought in his impatience, he might supply the blank.
at length, in a fit of professional enthusiasm, he insisted upon producing his box of housebreaking tools: which he had no sooner stumbled in with, and opened for the purpose of explaining the nature and properties of the various implements it contained, and the peculiar beauties of their construction, than he fell over the box upon the floor, and went to sleep where he fell.
the room was illuminated by two gas-lights; the glare of which was prevented by the barred shutters, and closely-drawn curtains of faded red, from being visible outside.
i am not here by accident,” he added after a lengthened silence; “nor have i heard all this tonight, for i knew it yesterday—only yesterday.
she imprinted her cold white lips passionately on its forehead; passed her hands over her face; gazed wildly round; shuddered; fell back—and died.
say only one, upon your knees, with me, and we will talk till morning.
when the breakfast was cleared away; the merry old gentleman and the two boys played at a very curious and uncommon game, which was performed in this way.
he eyed his good lady with looks of great satisfaction, and begged, in an encouraging manner, that she should cry her hardest: the exercise being looked upon, by the faculty, as strongly conducive to health.
i’b dot certaid you cad,” said barney, who was the attendant sprite; “but i’ll idquire.
you’re a great deal too fond of poking your nose into things that don’t concern you, making everybody in the house laugh, the moment your back is turned, and making yourself look like a fool every hour in the day.
hold your noise,” remonstrated the dodger, looking cautiously round.
the matter of fact, is, that the matron was in no way overpowered by mr.
and notwithstanding a offered reward of ten pound, which was afterwards increased to twenty pound.
bumble, who had handed him over to the care of an old woman, returned; and, telling him it was a board night, informed him that the board had said he was to appear before it forthwith.
having prepared his mind, by solitude and gloom, to prefer any society to the companionship of his own sad thoughts in such a dreary place, he was now slowly instilling into his soul the poison which he hoped would blacken it, and change its hue for ever.
there was the village in the hollow on the left; but, in order to gain that, after pursuing the track oliver had pointed out, the men must have made a circuit of open ground, which it was impossible they could have accomplished in so short a time.
giles walked into the corner with much importance, and some wonder, and was honoured with a short whispering conference with the doctor, on the termination of which, he made a great many bows, and retired with steps of unusual stateliness.
they wore a good deal of hair, not very neatly turned up behind, and were rather untidy about the shoes and stockings.
the jew stopped for an instant at the corner of the street; and, glancing suspiciously round, crossed the road, and struck off in the direction of the spitalfields.
of all the horrors that rose with an ill scent upon the morning air, that was the foulest and most cruel.
assisting oliver to rise, the young gentleman took him to an adjacent chandler’s shop, where he purchased a sufficiency of ready-dressed ham and a half-quartern loaf, or, as he himself expressed it, “a fourpenny bran!
a soft tap at the door, at length announced that some one was without.
i think i would rather read them, sir,” replied oliver.
bumble: glancing distractedly at a couple of old women at the wash-tub, who were comparing notes of admiration at the workhouse-master’s humility.
bolter in a fit of chuckling which shook him as though he had the palsy; “see what a pride they take in their profession, my dear.
i had only had the courage to say the word, i might have been free of you in a night.
it lighted up the room where the murdered woman lay.
notwithstanding the difference between youth and age, he bore so strong a likeness to the old lady, that oliver would have had no great difficulty in imagining their relationship, if he had not already spoken of her as his mother.
well, well,” said the dodger, recurring to the point from which they had strayed: with that mindfulness of his profession which influenced all his proceedings.
think, dear rose, think what you have heard tonight.
master bates, “what a lark that would be, wouldn’t it, fagin?
mann sighed again: evidently to the satisfaction of the public character: who, repressing a complacent smile by looking sternly at his cocked hat, said, “mrs.
he reminded her of the day he had given her the little locket and the ring with her christian name engraved upon it, and a blank left for that which he hoped one day to have bestowed upon her—prayed her yet to keep it, and wear it next her heart, as she had done before—and then ran on, wildly, in the same words, over and over again, as if he had gone distracted.
it is a common thing for the countenances of the dead, even in that fixed and rigid state, to subside into the long-forgotten expression of sleeping infancy, and settle into the very look of early life; so calm, so peaceful, do they grow again, that those who knew them in their happy childhood, kneel by the coffin’s side in awe, and see the angel even upon earth.
mann gave him a thousand embraces, and what oliver wanted a great deal more, a piece of bread and butter, lest he should seem too hungry when he got to the workhouse.
noah claypole, bespeaking his good lady’s attention, proceeded to enlighten her relative to the arrangement he had made, with all that haughtiness and air of superiority, becoming, not only a member of the sterner sex, but a gentleman who appreciated the dignity of a special appointment on the kinchin lay, in london and its vicinity.
just send somebody out to relieve my mate, will you, young man?
bumble turned, and encountered the face of his interesting consort, who, imperfectly comprehending the few words she had overheard of his complaint, had hazarded the foregoing remark at a venture.
very good,” said that gentleman, sipping his peppermint; “i’ll call at sowerberry’s as i go home, and tell him to send tomorrow morning.
the things is well enough in their way,” observed mr.
crape, keys, centre-bits, darkies—nothing forgotten?
he pushed against the garden-gate; it was unlocked, and swung open on its hinges.
three cripples,” repeated noah, “and a very good sign too.
once the thought occurred to her of seeking assistance from harry; but this awakened the recollection of their last parting, and it seemed unworthy of her to call him back, when—the tears rose to her eyes as she pursued this train of reflection—he might have by this time learnt to forget her, and to be happier away.
at length, a low cry of pain broke the stillness that prevailed; and uttering it, the boy awoke.
don’t mind me, my dear,” said fagin, drawing his chair closer.
look here,” said oliver, opening a scrap of paper, “here it is; here’s where he lives—i’m going there directly!
the hero sinks upon his straw bed, weighed down by fetters and misfortunes; in the next scene, his faithful but unconscious squire regales the audience with a comic song.
that crack down in the back lane at edmonton, blathers,” said mr.
the dog too was on the alert in an instant, and ran whining to the door.
it is,” cried the girl, writhing in agony of her mind; “i cannot leave him now!
sikes waited until he had fairly gone; and then, telling oliver he might look about him if he wanted, once again led him onward on his journey.
in three days’ time he was able to sit in an easy-chair, well propped up with pillows; and, as he was still too weak to walk, mrs.
her words and manner had touched rose maylie’s heart; and, mingled with her love for her young charge, and scarcely less intense in its truth and fervour, was her fond wish to win the outcast back to repentance and hope.
wipes,” replied master bates; at the same time producing four pocket-handkerchiefs.
quite perfect,” rejoined fagin, clapping him on the shoulder.
now, how much better this is, than being obliged to put the poor leetle boy out of the way—which would be dangerous, and we should lose by it besides.
mann’s gown, he was led into the awful presence of mr.
no more of it for me, thank ’ee, fagin,” replied mr.
i have got names ready made to the end of the alphabet, and all the way through it again, when we come to z.
yer as good as there,” said the long-legged tramper, pointing out before him.
you’ve hit the right nail upon the head, and are as safe here as you could be.
can’t you look at the gentleman, you obstinate boy?
he gazed stupidly about him for an instant, and obeyed.
what a opportunity for a jining of hearts and housekeepings!
bolter,” said fagin, drawing up a chair and seating himself opposite morris bolter.
i am the infamous creature you have heard of, that lives among the thieves, and that never from the first moment i can recollect my eyes and senses opening on london streets have known any better life, or kinder words than they have given me, so help me god!
oliver told them all his simple history, and was often compelled to stop, by pain and want of strength.
blathers: not holding his wine-glass by the stem, but grasping the bottom between the thumb and forefinger of his left hand: and placing it in front of his chest; “i have seen a good many pieces of business like this, in my time, ladies.
nancy stooped below the shutters, and oliver heard the sound of a bell.
sikes into a better temper, by affecting to regard his threats as a little pleasant banter; and, moreover, by laughing very heartily at one or two rough jokes, which, after repeated applications to the spirit-bottle, he condescended to make.
i won’t shed blood; it’s always found out, and haunts a man besides.
witness you three—i’m not afraid of him—if they come here after him, i’ll give him up; i will.
regardless of all this: for she had weightier matters at heart: nancy followed the man, with trembling limbs, to a small ante-chamber, lighted by a lamp from the ceiling.
with the first ray of light that struggled through the crevices in the shutters, oliver arose, and again unbarred the door.
a word from me would have done it; wouldn’t it, fagin?
having had his face put under the pump, and dried upon mrs.
no sir, i do not,” replied the girl, after a short struggle.
bumble, striking the table with his cane, “is a life of worrit, and vexation, and hardihood; but all public characters, as i may say, must suffer prosecution.
he was a trifle above the middle size, and apparently rather weak in the legs; but this circumstance by no means detracted from his own admiration of his top-boots, which he contemplated, in their elevated situation, with lively satisfaction.
he had conceived the idea—not from what had just passed though that had tended to confirm him, but slowly and by degrees—that nancy, wearied of the housebreaker’s brutality, had conceived an attachment for some new friend.
after a short pause, the dodger reappeared, and whispered fagin mysteriously.
because they’re of no use to me, my dear,” replied the jew, with some confusion, “not worth the taking.
this is a painful task,” said he, “but these declarations, which have been signed in london before many gentlemen, must be in substance repeated here.
several rough beds made of old sacks, were huddled side by side on the floor.
why do you wish to return to companions you paint in such terrible colors?
bumble’s glance, however; for that functionary, on whom the prediction of the gentleman in the white waistcoat had made a very strong impression, thought that now the undertaker had got oliver upon trial the subject was better avoided, until such time as he should be firmly bound for seven years, and all danger of his being returned upon the hands of the parish should be thus effectually and legally overcome.
standing, then in an irresolute attitude for a few minutes, as if he did not well know how to employ himself, he turned round and looked at oliver, and called him by his name.
i would rather you did not mention it to them,” said harry, hurrying over his words; “because it might make my mother anxious to write to me oftener, and it is a trouble and worry to her.
as he said it, master bates caught up an end of his neckerchief; and, holding it erect in the air, dropped his head on his shoulder, and jerked a curious sound through his teeth; thereby indicating, by a lively pantomimic representation, that scragging and hanging were one and the same thing.
there appeared to be nobody stirring in that quarter of the town; the windows of the houses were all closely shut; and the streets through which they passed, were noiseless and empty.
uttering this last panegyric, master bates produced, from one of his extensive pockets, a full-sized wine-bottle, carefully corked; while mr.
the girl, who was not quite so susceptible, had run upstairs meanwhile; and now returned with a request that mr.
you do not mean,” said rose, turning very pale, “to tell me that this was said in earnest?
jew: rubbing his hands, and elevating his eyebrows in a rapture of anticipation.
why not have let me speak to you, above there, where it is light, and there is something stirring, instead of bringing us to this dark and dismal hole?
you will see him soon,” replied rose, gently taking his folded hands between her own.
they descended into the passage, and thence into the cellars below.
fagin looked so very much in earnest, that charley bates, who deemed it prudent in all cases to be on the safe side, and who conceived it by no means improbable that it might be his turn to be throttled second, dropped upon his knees, and raised a loud, well-sustained, and continuous roar—something between a mad bull and a speaking trumpet.
brownlow, glancing steadily at grimwig; “you are to say that you have brought those books back; and that you have come to pay the four pound ten i owe him.
bumble made no reply; but in a slow and dignified manner, put his arm round the matron’s waist.
i was only going to say—” “oh, don’t tell me what you were going to say,” interposed mrs.
behind a desk, sat two old gentleman with powdered heads: one of whom was reading the newspaper; while the other was perusing, with the aid of a pair of tortoise-shell spectacles, a small piece of parchment which lay before him.
maylie, folding the fainting girl in her arms; “not the less my dearest child.
which oliver felt glad to have done, though he by no means knew what it was.
i’ve seen a many people die; little babes and great strong men; and i know when death’s a-coming, well enough.
upon this piece of furniture, the stranger sat himself with the air of a weary man; and the jew, drawing up the arm-chair opposite, they sat face to face.
in an instant, the other two were on their legs, and all were actively engaged in busy preparation.
a child was weeding one of the little beds; as he stopped, he raised his pale face and disclosed the features of one of his former companions.
the cheapest and least delicate provisions are heaped in the shops; the coarsest and commonest articles of wearing apparel dangle at the salesman’s door, and stream from the house-parapet and windows.
by what authority am i kidnapped in the street, and brought here by these dogs?
he looked about, and saw that at no great distance there was a house, which perhaps he could reach.
besides, the board made periodical pilgrimages to the farm, and always sent the beadle the day before, to say they were going.
of course, he entered at this juncture, into no explanation of his motives, and they walked on very lovingly together.
brownlow; “and that is, that i really never, without actual experience, could have believed—” “hold your tongue, sir!
oliver, delighted to be of use, brought down the books under his arm in a great bustle; and waited, cap in hand, to hear what message he was to take.
though i must say,” continued the undertaker, resuming the current of observations which the beadle had interrupted: “though i must say, mr.
he was worn by anxiety and remorse almost to a shadow; talked in a wild, distracted way, of ruin and dishonour worked by himself; confided to me his intention to convert his whole property, at any loss, into money, and, having settled on his wife and you a portion of his recent acquisition, to fly the country—i guessed too well he would not fly alone—and never see it more.
the doctor appeared much of the same opinion himself.
i must go back, because—how can i tell such things to an innocent lady like you?
with those words, the jew, stooping down, placed the candle on an upper flight of stairs, exactly opposite to the room door.
bolter, “yer a very nice man, and i’m very fond of yer; but we ain’t quite so thick together, as all that comes to.
they’re _so_ happy, _so_ frolicsome, and _so_ cheerful, that they are quite companions for me.
when little oliver was taken before “the gentlemen” that evening; and informed that he was to go, that night, as general house-lad to a coffin-maker’s; and that if he complained of his situation, or ever came back to the parish again, he would be sent to sea, there to be drowned, or knocked on the head, as the case might be, he evinced so little emotion, that they by common consent pronounced him a hardened young rascal, and ordered mr.
you will tell me a different tale one of these days,” said harry, colouring without any perceptible reason.
in this favourable position of affairs, noah rose from the ground, and pommelled him behind.
he closed the lid of the box with a loud crash; and, laying his hand on a bread knife which was on the table, started furiously up.
monks, still bearing that assumed name, retired with his portion to a distant part of the new world; where, having quickly squandered it, he once more fell into his old courses, and, after undergoing a long confinement for some fresh act of fraud and knavery, at length sunk under an attack of his old disorder, and died in prison.
he wants the stick, now and then: it’ll do him good; and his board needn’t come very expensive, for he hasn’t been overfed since he was born.
they have him now,” cried a man on the nearest bridge.
he talked of miseries which his wife had brought upon him; of the rebellious disposition, vice, malice, and premature bad passions of you his only son, who had been trained to hate him; and left you, and your mother, each an annuity of eight hundred pounds.
the fact is all we need care for here; and the fact is, that she suddenly checked herself, and with several gracious smiles upon mr.
the room in which the boys were fed, was a large stone hall, with a copper at one end: out of which the master, dressed in an apron for the purpose, and assisted by one or two women, ladled the gruel at mealtimes.
the younger lady was in the lovely bloom and spring-time of womanhood; at that age, when, if ever angels be for god’s good purposes enthroned in mortal forms, they may be, without impiety, supposed to abide in such as hers.
but, however,” said the beadle, stopping to unpack his bundle, “these are official secrets, ma’am; not to be spoken of; except, as i may say, among the porochial officers, such as ourselves.
oliver opened it, glided away, and gave place to harry maylie.
that, sir,” cried oliver, pointing out of the carriage window.
even when i first saw him in all his dirt and misery, there was a lingering expression in his face that came upon me like a glimpse of some old friend flashing on one in a vivid dream.
bumble took his hat from a peg, and putting it on, rather rakishly, on one side, as a man might, who felt he had asserted his superiority in a becoming manner, thrust his hands into his pockets, and sauntered towards the door, with much ease and waggishness depicted in his whole appearance.
maylie should be cautiously informed of all that had occurred.
i know they will always keep _one_ till it’s found out,” said monks.
it was curious to observe some faces which stood out prominently from among the group.
it’s the worst of having to do with women,” said the jew, replacing his club; “but they’re clever, and we can’t get on, in our line, without ’em.
but he was sick and weary; and he soon fell sound asleep.
his features were not naturally intended to wear a smiling aspect, but he was in general rather given to professional jocosity.
bumble that it would be an innocent and virtuous way of spending the time, if he were further to allay his curiousity by a cursory glance at the interior of mrs.
and when are you going to hear a full, true, and particular account of the life and adventures of oliver twist?
aunt, dear aunt, for mercy’s sake, think of this, before you let them drag this sick child to a prison, which in any case must be the grave of all his chances of amendment.
at last, the dodger trod upon his toes, or ran upon his boot accidently, while charley bates stumbled up against him behind; and in that one moment they took from him, with the most extraordinary rapidity, snuff-box, note-case, watch-guard, chain, shirt-pin, pocket-handkerchief, even the spectacle-case.
we must let him in,” he said, taking up the candle.
he is a strange creature, but a shrewd one, and might prove of material assistance to us; i should say that he was bred a lawyer, and quitted the bar in disgust because he had only one brief and a motion of course, in twenty years, though whether that is recommendation or not, you must determine for yourselves.
which was a capital way of raising his spirits, and putting him quite at his ease.
there was a candle burning, but the man hastily drew it from the candlestick, and hurled it under the grate.
the master aimed a blow at oliver’s head with the ladle; pinioned him in his arm; and shrieked aloud for the beadle.
his manner was determined; and the matter was growing rather too serious to be hushed up.
and now that he’s thoroughly up to it, let’s have some supper, and get a snooze before starting.
as the old gentleman said this in a low voice: more to himself than to his companion: and as he remained silent for a short time afterwards: oliver sat quite still.
must i go back to events which cast a shade upon the memory of your parent, or will you spare it, and disclose to me the truth?
the man had shrunk down, thoroughly quelled by the ferocity of the crowd, and the impossibility of escape; but seeing this sudden change with no less rapidity than it had occurred, he sprang upon his feet, determined to make one last effort for his life by dropping into the ditch, and, at the risk of being stifled, endeavouring to creep away in the darkness and confusion.
it may be nothing; it may be twenty pounds,” replied monks.
i’ve been lamed with orange-peel once, and i know orange-peel will be my death, or i’ll be content to eat my own head, sir!
bolter would have been informed that they represented that combination of words, “transportation for life,” when the dialogue was cut short by the entry of master bates, with his hands in his breeches-pockets, and his face twisted into a look of semi-comical woe.
he’d start up from a stone coffin, to come in my way!
acting upon this suggestion, they adjourned to a neighbouring apartment, where mr.
brownlow looked around the office as if in search of some person who would afford him the required information.
contains some introductory particulars relative to a young gentleman who now arrives upon the scene; and a new adventure which happened to oliver it was almost too much happiness to bear.
add five pounds to the sum you have named; give me five-and-twenty pounds in gold,” said the woman; “and i’ll tell you all i know.
the kitchen was an old, low-roofed room; with a great beam across the middle of the ceiling, and benches, with high backs to them, by the fire; on which were seated several rough men in smock-frocks, drinking and smoking.
sikes, trembling with rage, and drawing the pistol from his pocket; “get up, or i’ll strew your brains upon the grass.
these, however, had no worse effect than causing her to rub her nose very hard, and then fall asleep again.
the two old crones, chiming in together, began pouring out many piteous lamentations that the poor dear was too far gone to know her best friends; and were uttering sundry protestations that they would never leave her, when the superior pushed them from the room, closed the door, and returned to the bedside.
but the old gentleman was not the only person who raised the hue-and-cry.
when they arrived at the office, he was shut up in a little room by himself, and admonished by mr.
limbkins was standing in front of the desk on one side; and mr.
toor rul lol loo, gammon and spinnage, the frog he wouldn’t, and high cockolorum,” said the dodger: with a slight sneer on his intellectual countenance.
the curtain at the bed’s head was hastily drawn back, and a motherly old lady, very neatly and precisely dressed, rose as she undrew it, from an arm-chair close by, in which she had been sitting at needle-work.
the hump-backed man stared, as if in excess of amazement and indignation; then, twisting himself, dexterously, from the doctor’s grasp, growled forth a volley of horrid oaths, and retired into the house.
relates what became of oliver twist, after he had been claimed by nancy the narrow streets and courts, at length, terminated in a large open space; scattered about which, were pens for beasts, and other indications of a cattle-market.
oh, that’s quite true,” said a gentleman inside, who was looking out of the window.
sowerberry sunk into a chair, and burst into tears.
if you’re going directly, i can,” replied the man, looking out of the pot.
she soon returned, with the direction that the wounded person was to be carried, carefully, upstairs to mr.
with these words, the matron dropped into her chair, and, once more resting her elbow on the table, thought of her solitary fate.
you had left it, months before, and were supposed to be in london, but no one could tell where.
then, came a loud knocking at the door, and then a hoarse murmur from such a multitude of angry voices as would have made the boldest quail.
bumble resigned his cup without another word; squeezed mrs.
what fascination is it that can take you back, and make you cling to wickedness and misery?
you’re a gentleman of experience, and ought to know.
fang to the house of correction for one month; with the appropriate and amusing remark that since he had so much breath to spare, it would be more wholesomely expended on the treadmill than in a musical instrument.
the conversation was here interrupted by a moan from the sick woman.
master bates backed this advice with sundry moral admonitions of his own: which, being exhausted, he and his friend mr.
with these incoherent exclamations, the young woman burst into another fit of crying, and got so dreadfully hysterical, that a couple of women who came up at the moment asked a butcher’s boy with a shiny head of hair anointed with suet, who was also looking on, whether he didn’t think he had better run for the doctor.
and now you do see me,” said monks, rising boldly, “what then?
it is worthy of remark, and oliver did not fail to note it at the time, that his morning expeditions were no longer made alone.
and now about business,” said the beadle, taking out a leathern pocket-book.
upon no one, however, did it make a greater impression than on mr.
brownlow, that gentleman’s proposition was carried unanimously.
after some delay, and some assistance from toby, the shutter to which he had referred, swung open on its hinges.
sowerberry looking up, with a peculiarly unpropitious aspect, he stopped short.
noah claypole is employed by fagin on a secret mission the old man was up, betimes, next morning, and waited impatiently for the appearance of his new associate, who after a delay that seemed interminable, at length presented himself, and commenced a voracious assault on the breakfast.
you’d like to be able to make pocket-handkerchiefs as easy as charley bates, wouldn’t you, my dear?
he eyed bumble askance, as he entered, but scarcely deigned to nod his head in acknowledgment of his salutation.
he declined any renewal of the conversation, however, for that night: suddenly remembering that it was past one o’clock.
but, yer see,” observed noah, “as she will be able to do a good deal, i should like to take something very light.
still, the same quiet life went on at the little cottage, and the same cheerful serenity prevailed among its inmates.
but when he got there, all the people he met—the very children at the doors—seemed to view him with suspicion.
upon my word,” he said, making a halt, after a great number of very rapid turns, “i hardly know what to do.
to london, ma’am,” resumed the inflexible beadle, “by coach.
let me wheel your chair round to the other side; and then you won’t see it.
he shut the door softly, locked it, took the key, and left the house.
losberne the circumstances that had led to so vigorous a pursuit.
this is not much for your intelligence; but i would gladly have given you treble the money, if it had been favourable to the boy.
brownlow, who used to live in the adjoining house, do you know?
well, and what if he did, you little ungrateful wretch?
bolter; “and don’t yer take liberties with yer superiors, little boy, or yer’ll find yerself in the wrong shop.
let this be a lesson to you, my man, or the law will overtake you yet.
at length they turned into a very filthy narrow street, nearly full of old-clothes shops; the dog running forward, as if conscious that there was no further occasion for his keeping on guard, stopped before the door of a shop that was closed and apparently untenanted; the house was in a ruinous condition, and on the door was nailed a board, intimating that it was to let: which looked as if it had hung there for many years.
i don’t feel like myself when you lay that withered old claw on my shoulder, so take it away,” said sikes, casting off the jew’s hand.
you were differently dressed at that time, and i only passed you in the street, but i should know you again.
i ask you again,” thundered the doctor, “are you, on your solemn oaths, able to identify that boy?
thirty or forty years ago, before losses and chancery suits came upon it, it was a thriving place; but now it is a desolate island indeed.
i had no hold upon him to make him worse,” pursued the jew, anxiously watching the countenance of his companion.
the same reasons which influenced me then, will influence me now,” said rose firmly.
acquaintance, intimacy, friendship, fast followed on each other.
i don’t think it is the boy; indeed, i’m almost certain that it isn’t.
it was a bare garret-room, with a dim light burning at the farther end.
bumble raised his head and descried a man looking out of a door, breast-high, on the second story.
he looked, wistfully, into their faces, one by one when they passed out, as though to see which way the greater number leant; but that was fruitless.
there was nothing to attract attention, or excite alarm in this.
sometimes, indeed, a grizzly head might be seen, peering over the parapet-wall of a distant house; but it was quickly withdrawn again; and as the window of oliver’s observatory was nailed down, and dimmed with the rain and smoke of years, it was as much as he could do to make out the forms of the different objects beyond, without making any attempt to be seen or heard,—which he had as much chance of being, as if he had lived inside the ball of st.
for instance, it’s your object to take care of number one—meaning yourself.
the old man, who was stooping over the fire toasting a piece of bread, looked round as he bantered oliver thus; and chuckled as if to show that he knew he would still be very glad to get away if he could.
at this tremendous sight, oliver began to cry very piteously: thinking, not unnaturally, that the board must have determined to kill him for some useful purpose, or they never would have begun to fatten him up in that way.
the more he thought of the jew’s admonition, the more he was at a loss to divine its real purpose and meaning.
his dog has been seen lurking about some old haunt, and there seems little doubt that his master either is, or will be, there, under cover of the darkness.
where could he go, that was near and not too public, to get some meat and drink?
sikes and his companion enveloped their necks and chins in large dark shawls, and drew on their great-coats; barney, opening a cupboard, brought forth several articles, which he hastily crammed into the pockets.
he had better have cut it out, before he came, if he can’t speak in a lower tone,” said monks, grimly.
as he drew nearer to this house, a feeling come over him that he had seen it before.
you see,” pursued fagin, affecting to disregard this interruption, “we are so mixed up together, and identified in our interests, that it must be so.
she was busily engaged in the little offices of the table.
but, from this aperture, he had never ceased to call on those without, to guard the back; and thus, when the murderer emerged at last on the house-top by the door in the roof, a loud shout proclaimed the fact to those in front, who immediately began to pour round, pressing upon each other in an unbroken stream.
but these impertinences were speedily checked by the evidence of the surgeon, and the testimony of the beadle; the former of whom had always opened the body and found nothing inside (which was very probable indeed), and the latter of whom invariably swore whatever the parish wanted; which was very self-devotional.
dodger, take off the sausages; and draw a tub near the fire for oliver.
the tone of forced gaiety in which the last words were spoken, seemed to produce a deeper impression on sikes than the wild and rigid look which had preceded them.
bedwin stood on the step and screamed for the boy; but there was no boy in sight.
bumble fixed his hat on very tight, and putting his hands in his pockets, followed his helpmate downstairs.
show us the tap, and give us a bit of cold meat and a drop of beer while yer inquiring, will yer?
will you take yourself off, before i do you a mischief?
fagin was seized with a fit of coughing; upon which nancy pulled her shawl over her shoulders, and declared it was time to go.
i was almost afraid you’d given it up: in which case i should have made a personal wentur.
there was neither knocker nor bell-handle at the open door where oliver and his master stopped; so, groping his way cautiously through the dark passage, and bidding oliver keep close to him and not be afraid, the undertaker mounted to the top of the first flight of stairs.
the relief was inseparable from the workhouse and the gruel; and that frightened people.
and this man that’s to be his master—you, sir—you’ll treat him well, and feed him, and do all that sort of thing, will you?
they know what a clever lad he is; he’ll be a lifer.
he had kept it before him that morning, but it was behind now—always.
sikes, approvingly; “women can always put things in fewest words.
on everybody’s account, young man; on my own, you know, mr.
sowerberry, who had followed oliver down, “give this boy some of the cold bits that were put by for trip.
it’s not such a matter as a bonnet would keep me,” said the girl turning very pale.
the people who have been better off, and have paid rates for many years, are the first to sink when they come into the house; and let me tell you, mr.
this dialogue was held between the two men who had surprised the burglars, and a travelling tinker who had been sleeping in an outhouse, and who had been roused, together with his two mongrel curs, to join in the pursuit.
it fell straight, and true as a die; clove the water with a scarcely audible splash; and was gone.
well, never you mind that, my dear,” said the old lady; “that’s got nothing to do with your broth; and it’s full time you had it; for the doctor says mr.
he heard the news of his destination, in perfect silence; and, having had his luggage put into his hand—which was not very difficult to carry, inasmuch as it was all comprised within the limits of a brown paper parcel, about half a foot square by three inches deep—he pulled his cap over his eyes; and once more attaching himself to mr.
the girl jumped up, with great alacrity; poured it quickly out, but with her back towards him; and held the vessel to his lips, while he drank off the contents.
he wondered within himself whether this man had been to get his dinner, what he had had, and where he had had it; and pursued this train of careless thought until some new object caught his eye and roused another.
here, a bed was prepared, without loss of time, in which mr.
yes, yes, i will, to say good-b’ye to you,” replied oliver.
we was poor too, all the time, and i think, one way or other, it’s worried and fretted her; and that being shut up here so long has made her restless—eh?
but it turned out a good job for you; didn’t it, fagin!
the servant soon returned, to beg that she would walk upstairs; and following him into an upper room, miss maylie was presented to an elderly gentleman of benevolent appearance, in a bottle-green coat.
oliver eagerly; “but i was thinking that i am ungrateful now.
why, the gentleman’s got him,” replied the officer.
i _did_ sell them, and they’re where you’ll never get them.
for the first six months after oliver twist was removed, the system was in full operation.
bumble, who had eyed the building with very rueful looks, was apparently about to express some doubts relative to the advisability of proceeding any further with the enterprise just then, when he was prevented by the appearance of monks: who opened a small door, near which they stood, and beckoned them inwards.
losberne, looking into the other parlour; which, like the first, bore no resemblance whatever to oliver’s account of it.
the old gentleman pointed, with some surprise, to his card.
thus addressing oliver, he helped him into the cart; and the driver, pointing to a heap of sacks, told him to lie down there, and rest himself.
the old lady has had ’em these twenty years; and if you were to give ’em five hundred pound, they wouldn’t be in it.
thus directed, the bearers trotted on under their light burden; and the two mourners kept as near them, as they could.
but, one morning, he walked into the bar, and taking out his snuffbox, says ‘chickweed, i’ve found out who done this here robbery.
yer took the money from the till, yer know yer did,” said mr.
bedwin would say to him: and what delight it would be to tell them how many long days and nights he had passed in reflecting on what they had done for him, and in bewailing his cruel separation from them.
gamfield’s countenance brightened, as, with a quick step, he returned to the table, and said, “what’ll you give, gen’l’men?
master bates, surveying noah’s lank form with much disgust.
he could trace its shadow in the gloom, supply the smallest item of the outline, and note how stiff and solemn it seemed to stalk along.
treats of the place where oliver twist was born and of the circumstances attending his birth among other public buildings in a certain town, which for many reasons it will be prudent to refrain from mentioning, and to which i will assign no fictitious name, there is one anciently common to most towns, great or small: to wit, a workhouse; and in this workhouse was born; on a day and date which i need not trouble myself to repeat, inasmuch as it can be of no possible consequence to the reader, in this stage of the business at all events; the item of mortality whose name is prefixed to the head of this chapter.
harry maylie looked as if he could have followed up this short dialogue by one or two remarks that would have staggered the doctor not a little; but he contented himself with saying, “we shall see,” and pursued the subject no farther.
it seems a strange sort of a thing, a knock coming at such a time in the morning,” said mr.
and here, noah nodded his head expressively; and curled up as much of his small red nose as muscular action could collect together, for the occasion.
whether his meditations were so intense as to be disturbed by the dog’s winking, or whether his feelings were so wrought upon by his reflections that they required all the relief derivable from kicking an unoffending animal to allay them, is matter for argument and consideration.
peeping out, more than once, when he reached the top, to make sure that he was unobserved, noah claypole darted away at his utmost speed, and made for the jew’s house as fast as his legs would carry him.
he was preparing to ascend a steep staircase, or rather ladder, leading to another floor of warehouses above: when a bright flash of lightning streamed down the aperture, and a peal of thunder followed, which shook the crazy building to its centre.
i’ll point her out at the proper time,” said fagin.
i can’t bear, somehow, to let him go out of my sight.
as to lying dead, there are those who will lie dead for twelve thousand years to come, or twelve million, for anything you or i know, who will tell strange tales at last!
john’s road; struck down the small street which terminates at sadler’s wells theatre; through exmouth street and coppice row; down the little court by the side of the workhouse; across the classic ground which once bore the name of hockley-in-the-hole; thence into little saffron hill; and so into saffron hill the great: along which the dodger scudded at a rapid pace, directing oliver to follow close at his heels.
this is hardly fair, bill; hardly fair, is it, nancy?
monks, in a voice which, from its very suppression, seemed only the more furious.
you have come here to be educated, and taught a useful trade,” said the red-faced gentleman in the high chair.
good, strong, wholesome medicine, as was given with great success to two irish labourers and a coal-heaver, only a week before—sent ’em for nothing, with a blackin’-bottle in,—and he sends back word that she shan’t take it, sir!
at the very instant when he brought the loop over his head previous to slipping it beneath his arm-pits, and when the old gentleman before-mentioned (who had clung so tight to the railing of the bridge as to resist the force of the crowd, and retain his position) earnestly warned those about him that the man was about to lower himself down—at that very instant the murderer, looking behind him on the roof, threw his arms above his head, and uttered a yell of terror.
they were not exactly pretty, perhaps; but they had a great deal of colour in their faces, and looked quite stout and hearty.
he had had a fever six times; he wasn’t recommended to mercy on that account.
bedwin, drawing herself up slightly, and laying strong emphasis on the last word, to intimate that between slops, and broth well compounded, there existed no affinity or connection whatsoever.
bumble, grasping his cane, “to keep the parish officers a waiting at your garden-gate, when they come here upon porochial business with the porochial orphans?
he spoke to a postboy who was dozing under the gateway; and who, after hearing what he wanted, referred him to the ostler; who after hearing all he had to say again, referred him to the landlord; who was a tall gentleman in a blue neckcloth, a white hat, drab breeches, and boots with tops to match, leaning against a pump by the stable-door, picking his teeth with a silver toothpick.
a pleasant night, sir, but cool for the time of year,” said fagin, rubbing his hands.
fagin had no fear but that he would look the part to perfection.
he looked to the right and to the left, uncertain whither to fly.
a jailer stood reclining against the dock-rail, tapping his nose listlessly with a large key, except when he repressed an undue tendency to conversation among the idlers, by proclaiming silence; or looked sternly up to bid some woman “take that baby out,” when the gravity of justice was disturbed by feeble cries, half-smothered in the mother’s shawl, from some meagre infant.
don’t say anything more to me about her; you’d better not!
that’s not the smallest danger in it—not the very smallest,” said the jew; “it’s only to dodge a woman.
live like a gentleman—board and lodging, pipes and spirits free—half of all you earn, and half of all the young woman earns,” replied mr.
if you’ll wait ten minutes, he’ll be—” “no, no,” said the jew, hastily; as though, however desirous he might be to see the person in question, he was nevertheless relieved by his absence.
bumble’s mind in full force, he struck the counter sharply with his cane, and became flushed with indignation.
no more jolly old coffins, charlotte, but a gentleman’s life for me: and, if yer like, yer shall be a lady.
and yet he burst into an agony of childish grief, as the cottage-gate closed after him.
beguiling the time with these pleasant reflections, mr.
even when we’ve good cards, charley and i can’t make nothing of ’em.
he looks as if he was a-going, miss,” bawled brittles, in the same manner as before.
i beg your pardon, sir,” said oliver at length: seeing that no other visitor made his appearance; “did you knock?
she had just tasted her first cup, when she was disturbed by a soft tap at the room-door.
we only heard of the family the night before last,” said the beadle; “and we shouldn’t have known anything about them, then, only a woman who lodges in the same house made an application to the porochial committee for them to send the porochial surgeon to see a woman as was very bad.
the gentleman with the white waistcoat was standing at the gate with his hands behind him, after having delivered himself of some profound sentiments in the board-room.
the master, in his cook’s uniform, stationed himself at the copper; his pauper assistants ranged themselves behind him; the gruel was served out; and a long grace was said over the short commons.
the sessions are on,” said kags: “if they get the inquest over, and bolter turns king’s evidence: as of course he will, from what he’s said already: they can prove fagin an accessory before the fact, and get the trial on on friday, and he’ll swing in six days from this, by g—!
after making a tour of the house, and thinking, for the first time, that the poor-laws really were too hard on people; and that men who ran away from their wives, leaving them chargeable to the parish, ought, in justice to be visited with no punishment at all, but rather rewarded as meritorious individuals who had suffered much; mr.
there were two buyers directly, and more of the listeners plainly hesitated.
we have just heard a full account of him from his birth; and he has been a thorough-paced little villain, all his life.
oliver held up the bottom of the pocket with one hand, as he had seen the dodger hold it, and drew the handkerchief lightly out of it with the other.
suddenly, he started back at the report of firearms; there rose into the air, loud cries and shouts; lights gleamed before his eyes; all was noise and tumult, as some unseen hand bore him hurriedly away.
she staggered and fell: nearly blinded with the blood that rained down from a deep gash in her forehead; but raising herself, with difficulty, on her knees, drew from her bosom a white handkerchief—rose maylie’s own—and holding it up, in her folded hands, as high towards heaven as her feeble strength would allow, breathed one prayer for mercy to her maker.
i saw it done; and i saw that this boy was perfectly amazed and stupified by it.
he struck a light, kindled a fire, and thrust the club into it.
it reflects disgrace on no one living, except you who use it.
maylie; “but, on reflection, i determined to keep back the letter until i had heard mr.
bumble’s coat as they blew open, and disclosed to great advantage his flapped waistcoat and drab plush knee-breeches.
your tale is of the longest,” observed monks, moving restlessly in his chair.
oliver roused himself, and made his best obeisance.
bumble placed them both on top of a chest of drawers; folded the handkerchief in which they had been wrapped; put it carefully in his pocket; and took up his hat, as if to go.
bumble, stooping over the matron, “what is this, ma’am?
i’ll come on,” replied the dodger, brushing his hat with the palm of his hand.
as a proof of the fact, the jew drew forth two keys from his pocket; and explained, that when he first went downstairs, he had locked them in, to prevent any intrusion on the conference.
bumble, bowing himself gradually towards the ladder, with excessive politeness.
that about— _nancy_,” said fagin, clutching sikes by the wrist, as if to prevent his leaving the house before he had heard enough.
it must have been a dream, oliver,” said harry maylie.
it was not until the two boys had scoured, with great rapidity, through a most intricate maze of narrow streets and courts, that they ventured to halt beneath a low and dark archway.
and what had been the fervency of all the prayers he had ever muttered, compared with those he poured forth, now, in the agony and passion of his supplication for the life and health of the gentle creature, who was tottering on the deep grave’s verge!
sowerberry, will you have the goodness to come here a moment, my dear?
it must come, some time or another, and why not in the winter time when you don’t want to go out a-walking so much; eh, fagin?
sikes remained standing in the street, apparently unmoved by what he had just heard, and agitated by no stronger feeling than a doubt where to go.
it was impossible to doubt him; there was truth in every one of its thin and sharpened lineaments.
to do him justice, he was, as far as his power went—it was not very extensive—kindly disposed towards the boy; perhaps, because it was his interest to be so; perhaps, because his wife disliked him.
sevenpence-halfpenny’s worth per week is a good round diet for a child; a great deal may be got for sevenpence-halfpenny, quite enough to overload its stomach, and make it uncomfortable.
with the view of diverting the attention of the company, he turned to oliver.
we call it a put-up robbery, ladies,” said blathers, turning to them, as if he pitied their ignorance, but had a contempt for the doctor’s, “when the servants is in it.
he cast back a dark look, and a threatening motion of the hand, towards the spot where he had left the bolder villain; and went on his way: busying his bony hands in the folds of his tattered garment, which he wrenched tightly in his grasp, as though there were a hated enemy crushed with every motion of his fingers.
mann, the good lady of the house, was unexpectedly startled by the apparition of mr.
can i have a word or two with you in private, if you please?
the child beat his hand upon his heart; and looked in his companion’s face, with tears of real agony.
for a second or two, oliver glanced up the street, and down the street, and over the way: impressed with the belief that the unknown, who had addressed him through the key-hole, had walked a few paces off, to warm himself; for nobody did he see but a big charity-boy, sitting on a post in front of the house, eating a slice of bread and butter: which he cut into wedges, the size of his mouth, with a clasp-knife, and then consumed with great dexterity.
that’s for our share of the trouble,” said sikes; “and not half enough, neither.
and very amiable he looked, and a very low bow he made, as he advanced, and setting himself down at the nearest table, ordered something to drink of the grinning barney.
are we to pass a vote of thanks to all these vagabonds, male and female, and beg them to accept a hundred pounds, or so, apiece, as a trifling mark of our esteem, and some slight acknowledgment of their kindness to oliver?
apparently, the dog had been somewhat deceived by mr.
i wish you had been the dog, fagin, half a minute ago.
there was a still greater obstacle in oliver’s youth and childishness.
at length there was a cry of silence, and a breathless look from all towards the door.
the young gentleman smiled, as if to intimate that the latter fragments of discourse were playfully ironical; and finished the beer as he did so.
and i have taken a fancy to you and the young woman; so i’ve said the word, and you may make your minds easy.
the murderer swung lifeless against the wall; and the boy, thrusting aside the dangling body which obscured his view, called to the people to come and take him out, for god’s sake.
the turbid water, swollen by the heavy rain, was rushing rapidly on below; and all other sounds were lost in the noise of its plashing and eddying against the green and slimy piles.
every man’s his own friend, my dear,” replied fagin, with his most insinuating grin.
the prudence of this line of action, indeed, was obvious; but, unfortunately, there was one very strong objection to its being adopted.
brownlow said, that as it seemed to worry you, perhaps it might prevent your getting well, you know,” rejoined the old lady.
we have nothing more to say, and may break up our pleasant party.
thinking begets thinking; as there were no sounds of mrs.
why, you don’t mean to say, you’d be hard upon me tonight, bill,” said the girl, laying her hand upon his shoulder.
they beat and ill-use me, dick; and i am going to seek my fortune, some long way off.
we had enough of that, at first, my dear; i trembled for us all.
you can’t take care of yourself, number one, without taking care of me, number one.
having rested here, for a minute or so, to collect a good burst of sobs and an imposing show of tears and terror, he knocked loudly at the wicket; and presented such a rueful face to the aged pauper who opened it, that even he, who saw nothing but rueful faces about him at the best of times, started back in astonishment.
the old gentleman with the spectacles gradually dozed off, over the little bit of parchment; and there was a short pause, after oliver had been stationed by mr.
if the old gentleman felt a hand in any one of his pockets, he cried out where it was; and then the game began all over again.
sikes, filling his glass, and smiting the table with his enormous fist.
i can make that a job that two of you won’t like to do.
it wasn’t anything particular, dear,” said the lady evasively.
the man touched his hat; and glancing at oliver with some curiousity, opened another gate, opposite to that by which they had entered, and led them on, through dark and winding ways, towards the cells.
sikes’s temper; for, as the girl raised him up and led him to a chair, he muttered various curses on her awkwardness, and struck her.
corney,” said the beadle, smiling as men smile who are conscious of superior information, “out-of-door relief, properly managed: properly managed, ma’am: is the porochial safeguard.
as the other two were impressed with a similar presentiment; and as their blood, like his, had all gone down again; some speculation ensued upon the cause of this sudden change in their temperament.
then jumping to his feet, he snatched the cleft stick from the dodger; and, advancing to oliver, viewed him round and round; while the jew, taking off his nightcap, made a great number of low bows to the bewildered boy.
this led to a more friendly and confidential dialogue; from which oliver discovered that his friend’s name was jack dawkins, and that he was a peculiar pet and _protégé_ of the elderly gentleman before mentioned.
what a novel illustration of the tender laws of england!
brownlow, observing the curiosity with which oliver surveyed the shelves that reached from the floor to the ceiling.
you’ve raised a artificial soul and spirit in him, ma’am unbecoming a person of his condition: as the board, mrs.
monks, with quivering lip, and glancing over his shoulder, “blood!
here is a stain upon the hat of a gentleman in company, that i’ll take clean out, before he can order me a pint of ale.
there’s always more or less orange-peel on the pavement in our street; and i _know_ it’s put there by the surgeon’s boy at the corner.
oliver stretched himself in his clothes, by command of the same authority, on a mattress upon the floor; and the girl, mending the fire, sat before it, in readiness to rouse them at the appointed time.
cut me off a piece of that pie, one of you boys, to take the taste of that out of my mouth, or it’ll choke me dead.
oliver’s destiny continuing unpropitious, brings a great man to london to injure his reputation it is the custom on the stage, in all good murderous melodramas, to present the tragic and the comic scenes, in as regular alternation, as the layers of red and white in a side of streaky bacon.
i will, directly, sir,” replied oliver: undoing the chain, and turning the key.
he had scarcely washed himself, and made everything tidy, by emptying the basin out of the window, agreeably to the jew’s directions, when the dodger returned: accompanied by a very sprightly young friend, whom oliver had seen smoking on the previous night, and who was now formally introduced to him as charley bates.
those who were at too great a distance to know its meaning, took up the sound; it echoed and re-echoed; it seemed as though the whole city had poured its population out to curse him.
bumble sat in the workhouse parlour, with his eyes moodily fixed on the cheerless grate, whence, as it was summer time, no brighter gleam proceeded, than the reflection of certain sickly rays of the sun, which were sent back from its cold and shining surface.
after another fortnight, when the fine warm weather had fairly begun, and every tree and flower was putting forth its young leaves and rich blossoms, they made preparations for quitting the house at chertsey, for some months.
no, no,” replied the matron, inclining her head to catch the words, as they came more faintly from the dying woman.
oliver and sikes got in without any further ceremony; and the man to whom he belonged, having lingered for a minute or two “to bear him up,” and to defy the hostler and the world to produce his equal, mounted also.
after some words apart between the last comer and fagin, they drew their chairs towards the fire; and the jew, telling oliver to come and sit by him, led the conversation to the topics most calculated to interest his hearers.
a hackney-cabriolet was in waiting; with the same vehemence which she had exhibited in addressing oliver, the girl pulled him in with her, and drew the curtains close.
it is because i was your father’s oldest friend, young man,” returned mr.
the gate at which they had entered, was softly unfastened and opened by monks; merely exchanging a nod with their mysterious acquaintance, the married couple emerged into the wet and darkness outside.
these words, in plain english, conveyed an injunction to ring the bell.
she was, at that time, within a few months of her confinement.
if i hoped we could recall him to a sense of his position—” “nothing will do that, sir,” replied the man, shaking his head.
really nothing, my dear,” said fagin, turning to mr.
he shouted, too, till he was hoarse; and flying from memory and himself, plunged into the thickest of the throng.
he had gone out to dinner; but his ’prentice (which is a very clever lad) sent ’em some medicine in a blacking-bottle, offhand.
i can’t talk about business till i’ve eat and drank; so produce the sustainance, and let’s have a quiet fill-out for the first time these three days!
the doctor was in the chaise; giles (who, it had been arranged, should be left behind) held the door open in his hand; and the women-servants were in the garden, looking on.
bumble, that i have to contend against one very great disadvantage: which is, that all the stout people go off the quickest.
isn’t it a most wonderful and extraordinary thing that i can’t call at a man’s house but i find a piece of this poor surgeon’s friend on the staircase?
fagin, cursing his dear young friend’s greediness from the very bottom of his heart.
it was a robbery, miss, that hardly anybody would have been down upon,” said blathers.
he finished the gin-and-water, and added, “oliver being now too old to remain here, the board have determined to have him back into the house.
the door of the cell opened, and the attendants returned.
even if it had been the right place, and the right fellows had been there, what could i have done, single-handed?
the question was addressed to bumble; but his wife anticipated the reply, by intimating that she was perfectly acquainted with it.
but his spirit was roused at last; the cruel insult to his dead mother had set his blood on fire.
noah stopped to make no reply, but started off at his fullest speed; and very much it astonished the people who were out walking, to see a charity-boy tearing through the streets pell-mell, with no cap on his head, and a clasp-knife at his eye.
this is by no means a disparagement to his character; for many official personages, who are held in high respect and admiration, are the victims of similar infirmities.
say but that, dear rose; say but that; and soften the bitterness of this hard disappointment!
tell me that again—once again, just for him to hear,” said the jew, pointing to sikes as he spoke.
he is right in saying that you were with this hag the night she died; and that she told you something—” “about the mother of the boy you named,” replied the matron interrupting him.
and here he remained in such terror as none but he can know, trembling in every limb, and the cold sweat starting from every pore, when suddenly there arose upon the night-wind the noise of distant shouting, and the roar of voices mingled in alarm and wonder.
sikes; backing the inquiry with a very common imprecation concerning the most beautiful of human features: which, if it were heard above, only once out of every fifty thousand times that it is uttered below, would render blindness as common a disorder as measles: “what do you mean by it?
on they all went; nor stopped they once to breathe, until the leader, striking off into an angle of the field indicated by oliver, began to search, narrowly, the ditch and hedge adjoining; which afforded time for the remainder of the party to come up; and for oliver to communicate to mr.
upon this, the parish authorities magnanimously and humanely resolved, that oliver should be “farmed,” or, in other words, that he should be dispatched to a branch-workhouse some three miles off, where twenty or thirty other juvenile offenders against the poor-laws, rolled about the floor all day, without the inconvenience of too much food or too much clothing, under the parental superintendence of an elderly female, who received the culprits at and for the consideration of sevenpence-halfpenny per small head per week.
bumble, raising his hands and eyes with most impressive solemnity.
i’ll call up that poor lad, brittles, and save him from being murdered in his bed; or his throat,’ i says, ‘may be cut from his right ear to his left, without his ever knowing it.
as i purpose to show in the sequel whether the white waistcoated gentleman was right or not, i should perhaps mar the interest of this narrative (supposing it to possess any at all), if i ventured to hint just yet, whether the life of oliver twist had this violent termination or no.
some quickened their pace behind, as though to see whither she was hastening at such an unusual rate; and a few made head upon her, and looked back, surprised at her undiminished speed; but they fell off one by one; and when she neared her place of destination, she was alone.
but it was _hers_, and even at this distance of time brings back to me, an old man, the glow and thrill which i once felt, only to hear it repeated by a stranger.
then, mind what i told you,” said the matron: “and be careful to say as little as you can, or you’ll betray us at once.
brownlow, that if oliver twist felt pretty well, he should like to see him in his study, and talk to him a little while.
you are so very violent, that really i—” at this instant, mrs.
it is a commercial colony of itself: the emporium of petty larceny: visited at early morning, and setting-in of dusk, by silent merchants, who traffic in dark back-parlours, and who go as strangely as they come.
then came the loud ringing of a bell, mingled with the noise of fire-arms, and the shouts of men, and the sensation of being carried over uneven ground at a rapid pace.
if i had taken offence, and gone away, as many would have done, you’d have been sorry for it one day, and not without reason either.
a bargain was struck with fagin, that if oliver was got back he should have a certain sum; and he was to have more for making him a thief, which this monks wanted for some purpose of his own.
but, before we can resolve upon any precise course of action, it will be necessary to see the girl; to ascertain from her whether she will point out this monks, on the understanding that he is to be dealt with by us, and not by the law; or, if she will not, or cannot do that, to procure from her such an account of his haunts and description of his person, as will enable us to identify him.
let him be—let him be—or i shall put that mark on some of you, that will bring me to the gallows before my time.
after a short duration, the permission was most graciously conceded.
it so happened, however: as it will happen very often, when men fall into company under such circumstances: that mr.
the man followed to the chariot door, uttering the wildest imprecations and curses all the way; but as mr.
with these words, he led the way to the door, after stopping to pay for the liquor that had been drunk.
the rooms upstairs had great high wooden chimney-pieces and large doors, with panelled walls and cornices to the ceiling; which, although they were black with neglect and dust, were ornamented in various ways.
bumble emerged at early morning from the workhouse-gate, and walked with portly carriage and commanding steps, up the high street.
when he awoke, the table was covered with tea-things, and sikes was thrusting various articles into the pockets of his great-coat, which hung over the back of a chair.
brownlow went on, from day to day, filling the mind of his adopted child with stores of knowledge, and becoming attached to him, more and more, as his nature developed itself, and showed the thriving seeds of all he wished him to become—how he traced in him new traits of his early friend, that awakened in his own bosom old remembrances, melancholy and yet sweet and soothing—how the two orphans, tried by adversity, remembered its lessons in mercy to others, and mutual love, and fervent thanks to him who had protected and preserved them—these are all matters which need not to be told.
i don’t believe it,” said oliver: who had watched her closely.
affording an explanation of more mysteries than one, and comprehending a proposal of marriage with no word of settlement or pin-money the events narrated in the last chapter were yet but two days old, when oliver found himself, at three o’clock in the afternoon, in a travelling-carriage rolling fast towards his native town.
there was an uneasy movement among them, but nobody spoke.
a regular right-down bad ’un, work’us,” replied noah, coolly.
a dog growled as he touched the handle of a room-door; and a man’s voice demanded who was there.
fagin crept softly upstairs, and entered it without any previous ceremony.
giles’s habit to admit to too great familiarity the humbler servants: towards whom it was rather his wont to deport himself with a lofty affability, which, while it gratified, could not fail to remind them of his superior position in society.
they might have been talking, thus, for a quarter of an hour or more, when monks—by which name the jew had designated the strange man several times in the course of their colloquy—said, raising his voice a little, “i tell you again, it was badly planned.
he stepped back from the keyhole; drew himself up to his full height; and looked from one to another of the three by-standers, in mute astonishment.
i am certain it will not be believed; and even if they can do nothing to him in the end, still the dragging it forward, and giving publicity to all the doubts that will be cast upon it, must interfere, materially, with your benevolent plan of rescuing him from misery.
but if—if—” said the gentleman, “he cannot be secured, or, if secured, cannot be acted upon as we wish, you must deliver up the jew.
he is waiting in a coach at the door,” replied rose.
the jew rubbed his hands with a chuckle, but glanced uneasily at the box, notwithstanding.
but, tears were not the things to find their way to mr.
now don’t you be offended at what i’m a going to say,” observed mrs.
this man was a returned transport, and his name was kags.
he is the master of this establishment; his death will cause a wacancy; that wacancy must be filled up.
go on,” said the person addressed, turning away his face.
the men in the office looked at each other, but no one dared to stir.
this brief direction to charley bates, and his recent antagonist, was softly and immediately obeyed.
he grew so terrible, at last, in all the tortures of his evil conscience, that one man could not bear to sit there, eyeing him alone; and so the two kept watch together.
this gentleman had been discovered on reference to the court guide, and being then and there present, swore that the snuff-box was his, and that he had missed it on the previous day, the moment he had disengaged himself from the crowd before referred to.
when she had thoroughly explained the localities of the place, the best position from which to watch it without exciting observation, and the night and hour on which monks was most in the habit of frequenting it, she seemed to consider for a few moments, for the purpose of recalling his features and appearances more forcibly to her recollection.
i have heard enough, already, to assure me that you are the man i ought to talk to.
and between every syllable, charlotte gave oliver a blow with all her might: accompanying it with a scream, for the benefit of society.
and don’t he hate other dogs as ain’t of his breed!
fagin sat in the old den—the same from which oliver had been removed by the girl—brooding over a dull, smoky fire.
they crossed to the opposite side of the street, and stood for a few moments under a lamp.
master bates felt it so; and again said, “what do you mean?
he was down once, but they made a ring round him, and fought their way along.
what the devil do you come in between me and my dog for?
he could scarcely stand: and if he were in full possession of all the best powers of his slight and youthful frame, whither could he fly?
the top of the tree; employs a power of hands; has the very best society in the profession.
no evil wind at all, my dear, for evil winds blow nobody any good; and i’ve brought something good with me, that you’ll be glad to see.
the servant did not know; but would go and inquire.
a coach was obtained, and oliver having been carefully laid on the seat, the old gentleman got in and sat himself on the other.
the old housekeeper answered the summons with all dispatch; and dropping a curtsey at the door, waited for orders.
i dare say he will,” replied the lady pettishly, “on our victuals and our drink.
there would be the dangerous villain: the man i hate: gone; another secured in his place; and my influence over the girl, with a knowledge of this crime to back it, unlimited.
he had come a long way though, and should lose a great deal of time by doing so.
no, indeed,” replied his mother; “you have, or i mistake, too strong a hold on her affections already.
giles, as he spoke, looked at brittles; but that young man, being naturally modest, probably considered himself nobody, and so held that the inquiry could not have any application to him; at all events, he tendered no reply.
sikes; “i might have been done for, twenty times over, afore you’d have done anything to help me.
and so be able to retire on your property, and do the gen-teel: as i mean to, in the very next leap-year but four that ever comes, and the forty-second tuesday in trinity-week,” said charley bates.
the old gentleman was just going to say that oliver should not go out on any account; when a most malicious cough from mr.
he took some bread and meat; and as he drank a draught of beer, heard the firemen, who were from london, talking about the murder.
he looked like— bye the bye,” exclaimed the old gentleman, halting very abruptly, and staring up into the sky, “bless my soul!
brownlow, “and, as i advocate the dearest interests of others, i have not the right.
the aperture was so small, that the inmates had probably not thought it worth while to defend it more securely; but it was large enough to admit a boy of oliver’s size, nevertheless.
i will spare neither trouble nor expense in behalf of the object in which we are all so deeply interested, and i am content to remain here, if it be for twelve months, so long as you assure me that any hope remains.
he had scarcely moved since the trial began; and now that the judge ceased to speak, he still remained in the same strained attitude of close attention, with his gaze bent on him, as though he listened still.
this suggested itself as the very best thing that could possibly be done with him: the probability being, that the skipper would flog him to death, in a playful mood, some day after dinner, or would knock his brains out with an iron bar; both pastimes being, as is pretty generally known, very favourite and common recreations among gentleman of that class.
i’m sure we have all on us a great deal to be grateful for!
young bates,” said kags, looking angrily round, to check the fear he felt himself.
bumble gave him a tap on the head, with his cane, to wake him up: and another on the back to make him lively: and bidding him to follow, conducted him into a large white-washed room, where eight or ten fat gentlemen were sitting round a table.
you shall give nothing at all,” said miss maylie, smiling; “for, as i told you before, we shall employ you in a hundred ways; and if you only take half the trouble to please us, that you promise now, you will make me very happy indeed.
well, they were separated,” said monks, “and what of that?
the old gentleman paused; monks was biting his lips, with his eyes fixed upon the floor; seeing this, he immediately resumed: “the end of a year found him contracted, solemnly contracted, to that daughter; the object of the first, true, ardent, only passion of a guileless girl.
wide,” replied toby, after peeping in to satisfy himself.
these being answered in the negative, communicated the welcome intelligence to clusters in the street, who pointed out to one another the door from which he must come out, and showed where the scaffold would be built, and, walking with unwilling steps away, turned back to conjure up the scene.
frob the cuttry, but subthig in your way, or i’b bistaked.
i’ve got phil barker here: so drunk, that a boy might take him!
bumble opened the door, and walked in with a very fierce and angry manner: which was at once exchanged for a most humiliated and cowering air, as his eyes unexpectedly rested on the form of his lady wife.
but i can go and earn some more, when i like; can’t i, fagin?
still, oliver lay motionless and insensible on the spot where sikes had left him.
sikes lacking the niceties of discrimination, and being troubled with no more subtle misgivings than those which resolve themselves into a dogged roughness of behaviour towards everybody; and being, furthermore, in an unusually amiable condition, as has been already observed; saw nothing unusual in her demeanor, and indeed, troubled himself so little about her, that, had her agitation been far more perceptible than it was, it would have been very unlikely to have awakened his suspicions.
chitling wound up his observations by stating that he had not touched a drop of anything for forty-two moral long hard-working days; and that he “wished he might be busted if he warn’t as dry as a lime-basket.
jew, taking up a jagged and knotted club which lay in a corner of the fireplace; “eh?
after performing this evolution, he rose and limped as fast as he could up and down the room at least a dozen times, and then stopping suddenly before rose, kissed her without the slightest preface.
there was not so great a necessity for hurrying as mr.
chitling was considerably roused, hastened to assure him that nobody was laughing; and to prove the gravity of the company, appealed to master bates, the principal offender.
maylie, pausing to reflect; “but whether to send it now, or wait until i see how rose goes on, i scarcely know.
i’m at low-water-mark myself—only one bob and a magpie; but, as far as it goes, i’ll fork out and stump.
the instant she caught the sound, she tore off her bonnet and shawl, with the rapidity of lightning, and thrust them under the table.
the attendant did as she was told: shaking her head meanwhile, to intimate that the woman would not die so easily; having done so, she resumed her seat by the side of the other nurse, who had by this time returned.
i know many who do worse things; but i’d rather listen to them all a dozen times, than to that monks once.
what the devil made you stand lingering there, in the wet?
but, unfortunately, charley, in opening his mouth to reply that he was never more serious in his life, was unable to prevent the escape of such a violent roar, that the abused mr.
with this irrepressible ebullition of mirth, master bates laid himself flat on the floor: and kicked convulsively for five minutes, in an ectasy of facetious joy.
when there are two parties to a bargain, it is only reasonable that the interests of both should be consulted; is it, my good friend?
he is a child of a noble nature and a warm heart,” said rose, colouring; “and that power which has thought fit to try him beyond his years, has planted in his breast affections and feelings which would do honour to many who have numbered his days six times over.
after tea she began to teach oliver cribbage: which he learnt as quickly as she could teach: and at which game they played, with great interest and gravity, until it was time for the invalid to have some warm wine and water, with a slice of dry toast, and then to go cosily to bed.
is a very short one, and may appear of no great importance in its place, but it should be read notwithstanding, as a sequel to the last, and a key to one that will follow when its time arrives “and so you are resolved to be my travelling companion this morning; eh?
maylie was anxiously waiting to receive her son when he reached the cottage.
the boy’s right,” remarked fagin, looking covertly round, and knitting his shaggy eyebrows into a hard knot.
brownlow, “and proclaim it with my own lips upon the spot, if i can reach it.
he hasn’t come home since the morning, so he may go without ’em.
she gave way to such great grief, that oliver, suppressing his own emotion, ventured to remonstrate with her; and to beg, earnestly, that, for the sake of the dear young lady herself, she would be more calm.
here against the wall of a house, oliver saw written up in pretty large letters, “hampton.
oliver’s clothes had been torn in the beating he had received; his face was bruised and scratched; and his hair scattered over his forehead.
sowerberry, who are practical philosophers, will tell you.
besides, it was so early that there was very little fear of his being seen; so he walked on.
brownlow, “were a naval officer retired from active service, whose wife had died some half-a-year before, and left him with two children—there had been more, but, of all their family, happily but two survived.
can’t i be supposed to feel—_i_ as brought him up porochially—when i see him a-setting here among ladies and gentlemen of the very affablest description!
she cannot be seen until next sunday night; this is tuesday.
it wouldn’t have loosened the knot, or kept the drop up, a minute longer.
and i should like to tell him,” said the child pressing his small hands together, and speaking with great fervour, “that i was glad to die when i was very young; for, perhaps, if i had lived to be a man, and had grown old, my little sister who is in heaven, might forget me, or be unlike me; and it would be so much happier if we were both children there together.
to the left,” whispered the lad; “take the left had, and keep od the other side.
he caught sight of my shadow on the wall as i listened, in the hope of finding out,” said the girl; “and there are not many people besides me that could have got out of their way in time to escape discovery.
ten shillings too much,” said the gentleman in the white waistcoat.
bumble came to a room where some of the female paupers were usually employed in washing the parish linen: when the sound of voices in conversation, now proceeded.
his protestations had gradually become less and less vehement as they proceeded in their search without making any discovery; and, now, he gave vent to several very grim laughs, and confessed it could only have been his excited imagination.
hold your tongue this instant, or i’ll have you turned out of the office!
bumble, whose patience brooked no delay, caught up a bowl of soap-suds, and motioning him towards the door, ordered him instantly to depart, on pain of receiving the contents upon his portly person.
these were all reasons for the greatest caution and most circumspect behaviour in communicating it to mrs.
fagin and his young friend had not met, since she had interfered in behalf of oliver.
losberne set out, accordingly, in a little carriage which belonged to mrs.
stretching forth her trembling fingers as she spoke, the old creature shook them exultingly before her face, and fumbling in her pocket, brought out an old time-discoloured tin snuff-box, from which she shook a few grains into the outstretched palm of her companion, and a few more into her own.
the judge assumed the black cap, and the prisoner still stood with the same air and gesture.
they are both in a very low state, and we find it would come two pound cheaper to move ’em than to bury ’em—that is, if we can throw ’em upon another parish, which i think we shall be able to do, if they don’t die upon the road to spite us.
giles sat with his legs stretched out before the kitchen fender, leaning his left arm on the table, while, with his right, he illustrated a circumstantial and minute account of the robbery, to which his hearers (but especially the cook and housemaid, who were of the party) listened with breathless interest.
when he got into clerkenwell, he accidently turned down a by-street which was not exactly in his way; but not discovering his mistake until he had got half-way down it, and knowing it must lead in the right direction, he did not think it worth while to turn back; and so marched on, as quickly as he could, with the books under his arm.
losberne for oliver’s appearance if he should ever be called upon; and blathers and duff, being rewarded with a couple of guineas, returned to town with divided opinions on the subject of their expedition: the latter gentleman on a mature consideration of all the circumstances, inclining to the belief that the burglarious attempt had originated with the family pet; and the former being equally disposed to concede the full merit of it to the great mr.
sowerberry looked up with an expression of considerable wonderment.
the father of the unhappy agnes had _two_ daughters,” said mr.
arriving, in course of time, at the right-hand corner drawer (in which was the key), and beholding therein a small padlocked box, which, being shaken, gave forth a pleasant sound, as of the chinking of coin, mr.
bumble, i pay a good deal towards the poor’s rates.
come in, you sneaking warmint; wot are you stopping outside for, as if you was ashamed of your master!
you will not press these overstrained opinions of yours, so far, as to throw any obstacle in my way?
sowerberry had anticipated, however; for when they reached the obscure corner of the churchyard in which the nettles grew, and where the parish graves were made, the clergyman had not arrived; and the clerk, who was sitting by the vestry-room fire, seemed to think it by no means improbable that it might be an hour or so, before he came.
here,” said the turnkey, laying his hand upon his breast to keep him down.
grimwig lifted up his head, and converting one of the hind legs of his chair into a pivot, described three distinct circles with the assistance of his stick and the table; sitting in it all the time.
brownlow, speaking if possible in a kinder, but at the same time in a much more serious manner, than oliver had ever known him assume yet, “i want you to pay great attention, my boy, to what i am going to say.
next morning, spyers took his old place, and looked out, from behind the curtain, for a tall man with a black patch over his eye, till his own two eyes ached again.
charley, putting the light so close to his new jacket as nearly to set him on fire.
you may make up your mind to that, and think yourself well off besides.
with these words, he pushed them from the room: and carefully double-locking and barring the door behind them, drew from its place of concealment the box which he had unintentionally disclosed to oliver.
i am very sorry if any one has behaved harshly to you,” replied rose.
he was alone in a strange place; and we all know how chilled and desolate the best of us will sometimes feel in such a situation.
all doubts upon the subject, if he had any, were speedily removed by the young lady’s behaviour.
nor catching any thieves, nor identifying any house-breakers?
at his, master bates roared again: so loud, that fagin himself relaxed, and even the dodger smiled; but as the artful drew forth the five-pound note at that instant, it is doubtful whether the sally of the discovery awakened his merriment.
the man’s face was thin and very pale; his hair and beard were grizzly; his eyes were bloodshot.
bumble, beginning at the bottom, proceeded to make himself acquainted with the contents of the three long drawers: which, being filled with various garments of good fashion and texture, carefully preserved between two layers of old newspapers, speckled with dried lavender: seemed to yield him exceeding satisfaction.
non istwentus_, as the lawyers say,” replied the little man, shaking his head, and looking amazingly sly.
there were not wanting other appearances, and those closely connected with his own person, which announced that a great change had taken place in the position of his affairs.
there—there’s enough of that,” interposed sikes, impatiently; and stooping over his recumbant friend, he whispered a few words in his ear: at which mr.
he did so; and, by the light of the lamps, saw the girl’s retreating figure, already at some distance before him.
there were tears in the eyes of the gentle girl, as these words were spoken; and when one fell upon the flower over which she bent, and glistened brightly in its cup, making it more beautiful, it seemed as though the outpouring of her fresh young heart, claimed kindred naturally, with the loveliest things in nature.
and so far from being denied the advantages of religious consolation, he was kicked into the same apartment every evening at prayer-time, and there permitted to listen to, and console his mind with, a general supplication of the boys, containing a special clause, therein inserted by authority of the board, in which they entreated to be made good, virtuous, contented, and obedient, and to be guarded from the sins and vices of oliver twist: whom the supplication distinctly set forth to be under the exclusive patronage and protection of the powers of wickedness, and an article direct from the manufactory of the very devil himself.
but, at length, he began, by slow degrees, to get better, and to be able to say sometimes, in a few tearful words, how deeply he felt the goodness of the two sweet ladies, and how ardently he hoped that when he grew strong and well again, he could do something to show his gratitude; only something, which would let them see the love and duty with which his breast was full; something, however slight, which would prove to them that their gentle kindness had not been cast away; but that the poor boy whom their charity had rescued from misery, or death, was eager to serve them with his whole heart and soul.
the next day, (the family having been meanwhile relieved with a half-quartern loaf and a piece of cheese, left with them by mr.
giles, the tinker (who had received a special invitation to regale himself for the remainder of the day, in consideration of his services), and the constable.
a weakness on his part, which affords the narrative an opportunity of relieving the reader from suspense, in behalf of the two young pupils of the merry old gentleman; and of recording— that when the dodger, and his accomplished friend master bates, joined in the hue-and-cry which was raised at oliver’s heels, in consequence of their executing an illegal conveyance of mr.
bestowing something half-way between a smile and a frown upon his two companions, and again beckoning them to follow him, the man hastened across the apartment, which was of considerable extent, but low in the roof.
the horn sounded a few cheerful notes, and the coach was gone.
send me a large cloak: a good warm one: for it is bitter cold.
looking round, he saw that it was a post-chaise, driven at great speed; and as the horses were galloping, and the road was narrow, he stood leaning against a gate until it should have passed him.
rose blushed deeply, but she did not make any audible objection to this motion (possibly she felt in a hopeless minority); and harry maylie and mr.
they held their course at this rate, until they had passed hyde park corner, and were on their way to kensington: when sikes relaxed his pace, until an empty cart which was at some little distance behind, came up.
sikes while her back was turned, groped downstairs.
the men laid hands upon him, and disengaging oliver from his grasp, held him back.
as the jew uttered these words, his bright dark eyes, which had been staring vacantly before him, fell on oliver’s face; the boy’s eyes were fixed on his in mute curiousity; and although the recognition was only for an instant—for the briefest space of time that can possibly be conceived—it was enough to show the old man that he had been observed.
i never see such a jolly dog as that,” cried master bates, doing as he was desired.
if you had had patience for a twelvemonth, at most, couldn’t you have got him convicted, and sent safely out of the kingdom; perhaps for life?
on the seventh, he returned earlier, and with an exultation he could not conceal.
feebly raising himself in the bed, with his head resting on his trembling arm, he looked anxiously around.
for, these are matters totally beneath a female who is acknowledged by universal admission to be far above the numerous little foibles and weaknesses of her sex.
a large flat box was fetched out of the gig; and a bedroom bell was rung very often; and the servants ran up and down stairs perpetually; from which tokens it was justly concluded that something important was going on above.
brownlow’s indignation was greatly roused; but reflecting perhaps, that he might only injure the boy by giving vent to it, he suppressed his feelings and submitted to be sworn at once.
upon my word i was not, sir,” replied oliver, earnestly.
oliver coloured, involuntarily, to find that the old thief had been reading his thoughts; but boldly said, yes, he did want to know.
blathers; “that was done by conkey chickweed, that was.
what shall i do when i come to see him and hear him speak again!
by fagin’s directions, he immediately substituted for his own attire, a waggoner’s frock, velveteen breeches, and leather leggings: all of which articles the jew had at hand.
it seems to go right through one,” added the old man, touching his side.
maylie said these words, she checked her lamentations as though by one effort; and drawing herself up as she spoke, became composed and firm.
bumble, waving his right hand in a dignified, but placid manner.
she caught the hand which oliver instinctively placed in hers, and, blowing out the light, drew him after her up the stairs.
containing fresh discoveries, and showing that suprises, like misfortunes, seldom come alone her situation was, indeed, one of no common trial and difficulty.
master bates nodded assent, and would have spoken, but the recollection of oliver’s flight came so suddenly upon him, that the smoke he was inhaling got entangled with a laugh, and went up into his head, and down into his throat: and brought on a fit of coughing and stamping, about five minutes long.
mother, think better of this, and of me, and do not disregard the happiness of which you seem to think so little.
if we had known he would have asked for you, we would have put you a clean collar on, and made you as smart as sixpence!
a pretty thing it would be, wouldn’t it to go and stop at the very first public-house outside the town, so that sowerberry, if he come up after us, might poke in his old nose, and have us taken back in a cart with handcuffs on,” said mr.
a group of humble mourners entered the gate: wearing white favours; for the corpse was young.
my feelings remain unchanged, as they ever will; and why should i suffer the pain of a delay in giving them vent, which can be productive of no earthly good?
after ruminating for some minutes with his chin sunk on his breast, he raised his head and said, with a deep sigh, that if flash toby crackit reported aright, he feared the game was up.
the house to which oliver had been conveyed, was in the neighborhood of whitechapel.
at length he returned; and in reply to an anxious inquiry after his patient; looked very mysterious, and closed the door, carefully.
having seen him locked up by himself in a little cell, noah made the best of his way back to where he had left master bates.
wot did she take it into her head to go out tonight for, do you think?
bumble accompanied the threat with many warlike gestures, she was much touched with this proof of his devotion, and protested, with great admiration, that he was indeed a dove.
brownlow, they helped out a third man, and taking him between them, hurried him into the house.
two half-pence is all the same, and four farthings is received with joy.
but, before the coachman could dismount from his box, he had tumbled out of the coach, by some means or other; and, running down to the deserted tenement, began kicking at the door like a madman.
in the king’s name,” cried the voices without; and the hoarse cry arose again, but louder.
with these expressions of condolence, the fat gentleman shook hands with both ladies, and drawing up a chair, inquired how they found themselves.
you should have known the dodger, my dear; you should have known the dodger.
oliver turned, for an instant, when they reached the door, in the hope of meeting a look from the girl.
this, it occurred to oliver, must be french for going out; for directly afterwards, the dodger, and charley, and the two young ladies, went away together, having been kindly furnished by the amiable old jew with money to spend.
ah, you’ll get used to it in time, oliver,” said sowerberry.
claypole nodded assent, “what name shall i tell my good friend.
fagin, in a tone of surprise: which perhaps might mean that barney was at liberty to tell the truth.
and as i see on the faces about me, a disposition to inquire how it happened that i was not in the way to corroborate oliver’s tale, and had so suddenly left the kingdom, let me stipulate that i shall be asked no questions until such time as i may deem it expedient to forestall them by telling my own story.
he advanced as near as he considered prudent, and kept on the opposite side of the street, the better to observe her motions.
at length these subjects displayed signs of being thoroughly exhausted; and mr.
grimwig, who disappearing with great alacrity, shortly returned, pushing in mrs.
the old gentleman bowed respectfully; and advancing to the magistrate’s desk, said, suiting the action to the word, “that is my name and address, sir.
the old gentleman considered that she had acted prudently, and readily undertook to hold solemn conference with the worthy doctor himself.
oliver twist’s ninth birthday found him a pale thin child, somewhat diminutive in stature, and decidedly small in circumference.
it is very inexcusable in him if he stops to play with any other boys,” said the young lady, smiling.
she tore along the narrow pavement: elbowing the passengers from side to side; and darting almost under the horses’ heads, crossed crowded streets, where clusters of persons were eagerly watching their opportunity to do the like.
you’re desperate hard upon me, gen’l’men,” said gamfield, wavering.
the conversation proceeded no farther at this time, for the jew had returned home accompanied by miss betsy, and a gentleman whom oliver had never seen before, but who was accosted by the dodger as tom chitling; and who, having lingered on the stairs to exchange a few gallantries with the lady, now made his appearance.
well,” said the doctor, “i am sorry to hear it, because you do that sort of thing admirably.
then he goes by some other amongst us,” rejoined the girl, “which i more than thought before.
jew, drawing his chair forward, and speaking in a very low voice.
with this expression of feeling for his unfortunate friend, master bates sat himself on the nearest chair with an aspect of chagrin and despondency.
she told it all every word without a threat, without a murmur—she did—did she not?
he would deserve to have it knocked off, if he does,” said mr.
and do it the moment he sets foot in this room, or mind me, it will be too late!
the above reward will be paid to any person who will give such information as will lead to the discovery of the said oliver twist, or tend to throw any light upon his previous history, in which the advertiser is, for many reasons, warmly interested.
the clanking of the engine-pumps, and the spirting and hissing of the water as it fell upon the blazing wood, added to the tremendous roar.
giles had not, at first, been able to bring his mind to the avowal, that he had only shot a boy.
brownlow, rousing himself: “a brother, the whisper of whose name in your ear when i came behind you in the street, was, in itself, almost enough to make you accompany me hither, in wonder and alarm.
i never was more convinced of anything in my life,” said the gentleman in the white waistcoat, as he knocked at the gate and read the bill next morning: “i never was more convinced of anything in my life, than i am that that boy will come to be hung.
it’s worth the money to bring him up to it—bolter’s throat, bill; never mind the girl—bolter’s throat as deep as you can cut.
there had once been a water-mill beneath; the tide foaming and chafing round the few rotten stakes, and fragments of machinery that yet remained, seemed to dart onward, with a new impulse, when freed from the obstacles which had unavailingly attempted to stem its headlong course.
she was not, indeed, withheld by the same considerations as her agreeable friend; for, having recently removed into the neighborhood of field lane from the remote but genteel suburb of ratcliffe, she was not under the same apprehension of being recognised by any of her numerous acquaintances.
she hasn’t much strength in her, so i easily kept her quiet.
this is the port wine, ma’am, that the board ordered for the infirmary; real, fresh, genuine port wine; only out of the cask this forenoon; clear as a bell, and no sediment!
but, the measure of his degradation was not yet full.
that’s a case of deformation of character, any way.
give it here, you avaricious old skeleton, give it here!
crackit laughed immensely, and honoured oliver with a long stare of astonishment.
sikes proceeded to load the pistol, with great nicety and deliberation.
the girl threw herself into a chair, with her back towards him: and wrung her hands; but made no reply.
by degrees they fell off, one by one; and, for an hour, in the dead of night, the street was left to solitude and darkness.
the transitions in real life from well-spread boards to death-beds, and from mourning-weeds to holiday garments, are not a whit less startling; only, there, we are busy actors, instead of passive lookers-on, which makes a vast difference.
away they run, pell-mell, helter-skelter, slap-dash: tearing, yelling, screaming, knocking down the passengers as they turn the corners, rousing up the dogs, and astonishing the fowls: and streets, squares, and courts, re-echo with the sound.
coffin-plates, elm-chips, bright-headed nails, and shreds of black cloth, lay scattered on the floor; and the wall behind the counter was ornamented with a lively representation of two mutes in very stiff neckcloths, on duty at a large private door, with a hearse drawn by four black steeds, approaching in the distance.
this was far from being a place of doubtful character; for it had long been known as the residence of none but low ruffians, who, under various pretences of living by their labour, subsisted chiefly on plunder and crime.
the birds were once more hung out, to sing, in their old places; and the sweetest wild flowers that could be found, were once more gathered to gladden rose with their beauty.
at last, he couldn’t help shutting ’em, to ease ’em a minute; and the very moment he did so, he hears chickweed a-roaring out, ‘here he is!
apparently this consolatory perspective of a mother’s prospects failed in producing its due effect.
giles, nodding his head, approvingly; “from a woman, nothing else was to be expected.
if it was not a trick to frighten him, and those were the real hours treading on each other’s heels, where would he be, when they came round again!
the dog advanced, retreated, paused an instant, and scoured away at his hardest speed.
bumble, pursuing the same train of reflection, “for six teaspoons, a pair of sugar-tongs, and a milk-pot; with a small quantity of second-hand furniture, and twenty pound in money.
as they approached the town, and at length drove through its narrow streets, it became matter of no small difficulty to restrain the boy within reasonable bounds.
he wouldn’t so much as bark in a witness-box, for fear of committing himself; no, not if you tied him up in one, and left him there without wittles for a fortnight,” said the dodger.
the expedition it was a cheerless morning when they got into the street; blowing and raining hard; and the clouds looking dull and stormy.
i am going to sit here, as long as i think proper, ma’am,” rejoined mr.
many of the shops were already closing in the back lanes and avenues through which she tracked her way, in making from spitalfields towards the west-end of london.
but those connections are proud; and i will neither mingle with such as may hold in scorn the mother who gave me life; nor bring disgrace or failure on the son of her who has so well supplied that mother’s place.
well, well,” said fagin, with a sigh, “i’ll send the artful round presently.
not aunt,” cried oliver, throwing his arms about her neck; “i’ll never call her aunt—sister, my own dear sister, that something taught my heart to love so dearly from the first!
we behold, with throbbing bosoms, the heroine in the grasp of a proud and ruthless baron: her virtue and her life alike in danger, drawing forth her dagger to preserve the one at the cost of the other; and just as our expectations are wrought up to the highest pitch, a whistle is heard, and we are straightway transported to the great hall of the castle; where a grey-headed seneschal sings a funny chorus with a funnier body of vassals, who are free of all sorts of places, from church vaults to palaces, and roam about in company, carolling perpetually.
will she be buried tomorrow, or next day, or tonight?
in such a case i could show you reasons, i think, which would induce you to yield it.
as they disappeared, the girl sunk down nearly at her full length upon one of the stone stairs, and vented the anguish of her heart in bitter tears.
the girl stamped her foot violently on the floor as she vented this threat; and with her lips compressed, and her hands clenched, looked alternately at the jew and the other robber: her face quite colourless from the passion of rage into which she had gradually worked herself.
do you mean to state what your complaint against this boy is, man, or do you not?
and so oliver remained all that day, and for the greater part of many subsequent days, seeing nobody, between early morning and midnight, and left during the long hours to commune with his own thoughts.
he had walked no more than twelve miles, when night closed in again.
yes; that’s all you women think of,” answered sikes.
because,” said the girl, “i am about to put my life and the lives of others in your hands.
the gallows,” continued fagin, “the gallows, my dear, is an ugly finger-post, which points out a very short and sharp turning that has stopped many a bold fellow’s career on the broad highway.
we know that when the young, the beautiful, and good, are visited with sickness, their pure spirits insensibly turn towards their bright home of lasting rest; we know, heaven help us!
i see it, of course,” replied rose, smiling at the doctor’s impetuosity; “but still i do not see anything in it, to criminate the poor child.
if i could have done so, without doing heavy wrong to him i loved,” rejoined rose, “i could have—” “have received this declaration very differently?
some called for ladders, some for sledge-hammers; some ran with torches to and fro as if to seek them, and still came back and roared again; some spent their breath in impotent curses and execrations; some pressed forward with the ecstasy of madmen, and thus impeded the progress of those below; some among the boldest attempted to climb up by the water-spout and crevices in the wall; and all waved to and fro, in the darkness beneath, like a field of corn moved by an angry wind: and joined from time to time in one loud furious roar.
the dodger sighed again, and resumed his pipe: as did charley bates.
well, well,” said the beadle, evidently gratified with the compliment; “perhaps i may be.
you might as well give me a pair of iron spectacles!
nothing short of flying will keep pace with me, today.
he appeared somewhat reassured, on beholding her in the same listless attitude from which he had first roused her.
among other ingenious surmises, the question was then raised, whether mr.
i should have such strength,” muttered the robber, poising his brawny arm, “that i could smash your head as if a loaded waggon had gone over it.
bumble, a peculiarly impatient little double-knock was heard at the street-door: and the servant, running upstairs, announced mr.
of _shoes_, sir,” said giles, turning upon him, and laying great emphasis on the word; “seized the loaded pistol that always goes upstairs with the plate-basket; and walked on tiptoes to his room.
they slept, or appeared to sleep, for some time; nobody stirring but barney, who rose once or twice to throw coals on the fire.
i was to lay whatever of station or fortune i might possess at your feet, and if you still adhered to your former determination, i pledged myself, by no word or act, to seek to change it.
it contained a reference to some child likely to be the result of this sad connection, which child was born, and accidentally encountered by you, when your suspicions were first awakened by his resemblance to your father.
bumble taking advantage of the hesitation, and being very cold himself, shut it without permission.
immediately afterwards he felt himself gently lifted on to one of the sacks; and then he sunk into a deep sleep.
as for society, he was carried every other day into the hall where the boys dined, and there sociably flogged as a public warning and example.
if you please, mistress,” said a withered old female pauper, hideously ugly: putting her head in at the door, “old sally is a-going fast.
after a short silence, he ventured to look round at his companion.
the two gentlemen watched oliver’s earnest face, as he spoke, and looking from him to each other, seemed to feel satisfied of the accuracy of what he said.
i know it all,” he said, taking a seat beside the lovely girl.
grimwig uttered concerning him, when he went out on an errand oliver soon recovering from the fainting-fit into which mr.
succeeding, at length, in catching the eye of the man who occupied the chair, he beckoned to him slightly, and left the room, as quietly as he had entered it.
on sundays, he never fails to criticise the sermon to the young clergyman’s face: always informing mr.
losberne, a surgeon in the neighbourhood, known through a circuit of ten miles round as “the doctor,” had grown fat, more from good-humour than from good living: and was as kind and hearty, and withal as eccentric an old bachelor, as will be found in five times that space, by any explorer alive.
gamfield gave an arch look at the faces round the table, and, observing a smile on all of them, gradually broke into a smile himself.
i mind the time,” said the first speaker, “when she would have done the same, and made rare fun of it afterwards.
i do believe, who ever appealed to you in the voice of pity and compassion.
i do not seek to know where these dreadful people live, but where will you be walking or passing at any settled period from this time?
don’t be out of temper, my dear,” urged fagin, submissively.
quit them all, while there is time and opportunity!
although oliver did as he was desired, at once; and passed the back of his unoccupied hand briskly across his eyes, he left a tear in them when he looked up at his conductor.
his wounded arm, bound and splintered up, was crossed upon his breast; his head reclined upon the other arm, which was half hidden by his long hair, as it streamed over the pillow.
do not tell me that you wish i had lost this; for it has softened my heart to all mankind.
well, it _is_ strange that i who gave birth to her, and was a woman then, should be alive and merry now, and she lying there: so cold and stiff!
every sunday night, from eleven until the clock strikes twelve,” said the girl without hesitation, “i will walk on london bridge if i am alive.
having by this time recovered a little breath, the worthy book-stall keeper proceeded to relate, in a more coherent manner the exact circumstances of the robbery.
he says they died in his infancy, your worship,” replied the officer: hazarding the usual reply.
there was some cursed spell, i think, against us; for in spite of all our efforts she remained there and was happy.
why everybody lets him alone enough, for the matter of that.
it was not until even the dusty cloud was no longer to be seen, that the gazers dispersed.
bedwin, who had been listening at the parlour door, hastened into the passage in a breathless state.
we are going into the country, and my aunt intends that you shall accompany us.
fagin’s last night alive the court was paved, from floor to roof, with human faces.
fagin, looking up with an expression of devilish anticipation, and speaking slowly and with marked emphasis.
nor is this, the most striking phenomenon incidental to such a state.
and i don’t quarrel with it now; because, if it had never happened, you might never have clapped eyes on the boy to notice him, and so led to the discovery that it was him you were looking for.
bumble; not sitting upon, or dropping himself into a seat, as any common jackanapes would: but letting himself gradually and slowly down into a chair; “mrs.
monks is aware that i am not a young man, my dear, and also that i am a little run to seed, as i may say; but he has heerd: i say i have no doubt mr.
if you insist upon that, i’ll do that also,” replied monks.
at length, she said, in a trembling voice: “i hope not, oliver.
this might lead to his apprehension as he passed along the streets.
i’m afraid,” said the jew, “that he may say something which will get us into trouble.
giles had, five minutes previously, admitted in the kitchen, that he began to be very much afraid he had been a little too hasty.
the animal came up from the very force of habit; but as sikes stooped to attach the handkerchief to his throat, he uttered a low growl and started back.
chitling, “that you had picked out some other crib when the two old ones got too warm, and had not come here, my fine feller.
ah, to be sure, so he will,” repeated charley, rubbing his hands.
there’s no midwifery there, whichever place she’s gone to; so i suppose she’s out of employment, anyway.
i would fain linger yet with a few of those among whom i have so long moved, and share their happiness by endeavouring to depict it.
and then, the noises grew confused in the distance; and a cold deadly feeling crept over the boy’s heart; and he saw or heard no more.
sikes seized the glass, and threw the remainder of its contents into the ashes: as a preparatory ceremony to filling it again for himself: which he did at once.
maylie and rose, and hear them talk of books; or perhaps sit near them, in some shady place, and listen whilst the young lady read: which he could have done, until it grew too dark to see the letters.
i shall go and lose myself among the narrowest streets i can find, and not stop till we come to the very out-of-the-wayest house i can set eyes on.
the coat was wide-skirted; and in that respect like _the_ coat, but, oh how different!
she spoke of a young creature,” resumed the matron, “who had brought a child into the world some years before; not merely in the same room, but in the same bed, in which she then lay dying.
sikes alighted, took oliver by the hand, and they once again walked on.
what a pity, bill, my dear, that there’s none quite ready to be done.
chitling; in whose conduct, it is but justice to say, there was nothing very conspicuous or peculiar: inasmuch as there are a great number of spirited young bloods upon town, who pay a much higher price than mr.
there had been something so tremendous in the shrinking off of the three, that the wretched man was willing to propitiate even this lad.
a great deal better, thank you, sir,” replied oliver.
for this reason, he took the dodger into custody as soon as he could get near him, and the said dodger, being searched, had upon his person a silver snuff-box, with the owner’s name engraved upon the lid.
corney rose to get another cup and saucer from the closet.
the great principle of out-of-door relief is, to give the paupers exactly what they don’t want; and then they get tired of coming.
monks, turning round, and addressing bumble, after he had bolted the door behind them.
venerable men of his own persuasion had come to pray beside him, but he had driven them away with curses.
they lingered about, in the fields, for some hours.
wipe your eyes with the cuffs of your jacket, and don’t cry into your gruel; that’s a very foolish action, oliver.
they halted with an exclamation of surprise, but suppressed it immediately; for a man in the garments of a countryman came close up—brushed against them, indeed—at that precise moment.
noah claypole, or morris bolter as the reader pleases, punctually followed the directions he had received, which—master bates being pretty well acquainted with the locality—were so exact that he was enabled to gain the magisterial presence without asking any question, or meeting with any interruption by the way.
his step was elastic, and his face betokened inward pleasantry, as he advanced to mr.
then he sat down to rest by the side of the milestone, and began to think, for the first time, where he had better go and try to live.
they were a man and woman; or perhaps they would be better described as a male and female: for the former was one of those long-limbed, knock-kneed, shambling, bony people, to whom it is difficult to assign any precise age,—looking as they do, when they are yet boys, like undergrown men, and when they are almost men, like overgrown boys.
you needn’t mind sending up to me, if the child cries, nurse,” said the surgeon, putting on his gloves with great deliberation.
it was not quite dark; the door was partially open; and the candle outside, threw a feeble reflection on the opposite wall.
she was as true and earnest in the matter as toby crackit himself could be.
so give us the bundle,” said noah, unstrapping it from the woman’s shoulders, and slinging it over his own; “and don’t yer speak, except when yer spoke to.
tell them to fetch a hackney-coach, and be ready to go with me.
oliver had fixed his eyes, most intently, on a portrait which hung against the wall; just opposite his chair.
giles was at a loss to comprehend what this outcry meant; but harry maylie, whose perceptions were something quicker, and who had heard oliver’s history from his mother, understood it at once.
monks impatiently; “and which has been lying dead for twelve years past or more!
this command was accompanied with a kick, which sent the animal to the other end of the room.
a few—a very few—will suffice, rose,” said the young man, drawing his chair towards her.
at this moment, there walked into the room: supporting himself by a thick stick: a stout old gentleman, rather lame in one leg, who was dressed in a blue coat, striped waistcoat, nankeen breeches and gaiters, and a broad-brimmed white hat, with the sides turned up with green.
don’t hurt him,” said the old gentleman, compassionately.
they walked on, for some time, through the most crowded and densely inhabited part of the town; and then, striking down a narrow street more dirty and miserable than any they had yet passed through, paused to look for the house which was the object of their search.
the kind and blessed gentleman which is so many parents to you, oliver, when you have none of your own: are a going to “prentice” you: and to set you up in life, and make a man of you: although the expense to the parish is three pound ten!
not a countryman among ’em; and i don’t think he’d take you, even on my recommendation, if he didn’t run rather short of assistants just now,” replied fagin.
he was walking along, thinking how happy and contented he ought to feel; and how much he would give for only one look at poor little dick, who, starved and beaten, might be weeping bitterly at that very moment; when he was startled by a young woman screaming out very loud.
if noah had been attired in his charity-boy’s dress, there might have been some reason for the jew opening his eyes so wide; but as he had discarded the coat and badge, and wore a short smock-frock over his leathers, there seemed no particular reason for his appearance exciting so much attention in a public-house.
a porochial ’prentis, who is at present a dead-weight; a millstone, as i may say, round the porochial throat?
never mind where i came from, young ’un; you’ll find your way there, soon enough, i’ll bet a crown!
why, we can’t afford to do that just now, my dear,” replied the jew, smiling; “and, besides, that sort of thing is not in our way; or, one of these days, i might be glad to have it done.
a gentleman and a lady that she had gone to of her own accord before, who asked her to give up all her pals, and monks first, which she did—and to describe him, which she did—and to tell her what house it was that we meet at, and go to, which she did—and where it could be best watched from, which she did—and what time the people went there, which she did.
this done, he led the way into the apartment; which was destitute of all movables save a broken arm-chair, and an old couch or sofa without covering, which stood behind the door.
one, which advanced with a swift and rapid step, was that of a woman who looked eagerly about her as though in quest of some expected object; the other figure was that of a man, who slunk along in the deepest shadow he could find, and, at some distance, accommodated his pace to hers: stopping when she stopped: and as she moved again, creeping stealthily on: but never allowing himself, in the ardour of his pursuit, to gain upon her footsteps.
that’s what it is, sir,” replied the constable, coughing with great violence; for he had finished his ale in a hurry, and some of it had gone the wrong way.
a clean shirt,” thought oliver, “is a very comfortable thing; and so are two pairs of darned stockings; and so is a penny; but they are small helps to a sixty-five miles’ walk in winter time.
i’m mister noah claypole,” said the charity-boy, “and you’re under me.
perhaps these were reasons for the old gentleman’s giving his assent; but, whether they were or no, he told oliver he might go, and placed him under the joint guardianship of charley bates, and his friend the dodger.
shut the door,” whispered fagin from the end of the passage.
the boy was lying, fast asleep, on a rude bed upon the floor; so pale with anxiety, and sadness, and the closeness of his prison, that he looked like death; not death as it shows in shroud and coffin, but in the guise it wears when life has just departed; when a young and gentle spirit has, but an instant, fled to heaven, and the gross air of the world has not had time to breathe upon the changing dust it hallowed.
are you mad, my dear, stark mad, that you’d walk into the very place where—no, charley, no.
suppose that lad,” pursued fagin, “was to peach—to blow upon us all—first seeking out the right folks for the purpose, and then having a meeting with ’em in the street to paint our likenesses, describe every mark that they might know us by, and the crib where we might be most easily taken.
i can see ’em now, not able to stand upright with the pressing of the mob, and draggin him along amongst ’em; i can see the people jumping up, one behind another, and snarling with their teeth and making at him; i can see the blood upon his hair and beard, and hear the cries with which the women worked themselves into the centre of the crowd at the street corner, and swore they’d tear his heart out!
yes, my dear, yes,” rejoined the jew; his eyes glistening, and every muscle in his face working, with the excitement that the inquiry had awakened.
sikes struck, by way of chiswell street, into barbican: thence into long lane, and so into smithfield; from which latter place arose a tumult of discordant sounds that filled oliver twist with amazement.
bolter put his hand to his neckerchief, as if he felt it inconveniently tight; and murmured an assent, qualified in tone but not in substance.
jew, exasperated beyond all bounds by his companion’s unexpected obstinacy, and the vexation of the night, “i _will_ change it!
the air grew colder, as day came slowly on; and the mist rolled along the ground like a dense cloud of smoke.
nancy, scarcely looking at the boy, threw him a handkerchief to tie round his throat; sikes gave him a large rough cape to button over his shoulders.
either the matter or the manner of this remark, which was made very ruefully, delighted charley bates so much, that his consequent shout of laughter roused the jew from his reverie, and induced him to inquire what was the matter.
the beadle drew himself up with great pride, and said, “i inwented it.
the dodger and master bates, unwilling to attract public attention by running down the open street, had merely retired into the very first doorway round the corner.
the jew, smiling hideously, patted oliver on the head, and said, that if he kept himself quiet, and applied himself to business, he saw they would be very good friends yet.
rose, involuntarily falling from her strange companion.
bumble’s heavy accusation, of which, to do her justice, she was wholly innocent, in thought, word, or deed.
i should like,” said the child, “to leave my dear love to poor oliver twist; and to let him know how often i have sat by myself and cried to think of his wandering about in the dark nights with nobody to help him.
his expectations were disappointed, however, for the picture had been removed.
bumble and a lady; and shows that even a beadle may be susceptible on some points the night was bitter cold.
if they shot him dead, i was not the cause; do you hear me?
their appearance was not calculated to attract the importunate regards of such of london’s destitute population, as chanced to take their way over the bridge that night in search of some cold arch or doorless hovel wherein to lay their heads; they stood there in silence: neither speaking nor spoken to, by any one who passed.
then, falling upon his knees, he prayed heaven to spare him from such deeds; and rather to will that he should die at once, than be reserved for crimes, so fearful and appalling.
about his losses, maybe; or the little retirement in the country that he’s just left, eh?
i swore to her, if ever it crossed my path, to hunt it down; never to let it rest; to pursue it with the bitterest and most unrelenting animosity; to vent upon it the hatred that i deeply felt, and to spit upon the empty vaunt of that insulting will by dragging it, if i could, to the very gallows-foot.
giles, recovering his usual tone of patronage; “and sends his respectful duty, sir.
and now, hosts of bewildering and confused ideas came crowding on his mind.
i am afraid you have got yourself into a scrape there, mr.
if you step this way, you can see the door he goes out at.
if i wanted any further proof of the strictly philosophical nature of the conduct of these young gentlemen in their very delicate predicament, i should at once find it in the fact (also recorded in a foregoing part of this narrative), of their quitting the pursuit, when the general attention was fixed upon oliver; and making immediately for their home by the shortest possible cut.
arriving at the conclusion that it certainly was, he turned his back upon the scenes of the past, resolved to amend it in some new sphere of action.
but come,” said the young gentleman; “you want grub, and you shall have it.
she didn’t utter another word,” said the woman, to all appearance unmoved (as mr.
i planned with toby, the night arter tomorrow,” rejoined sikes in a surly voice, “if he heerd nothing from me to the contrairy.
boys is wery obstinit, and wery lazy, gen’l’men, and there’s nothink like a good hot blaze to make ’em come down vith a run.
not yet, not yet,” said the young man, detaining her as she rose.
she charged me to keep it safe,” replied the woman with a groan, “and trusted me as the only woman about her.
it was most intolerably dirty; for it was monday morning; and it had been tenanted by six drunken people, who had been locked up, elsewhere, since saturday night.
fagin the animating news that the dodger was doing full justice to his bringing-up, and establishing for himself a glorious reputation.
if you go on, in this way, you’ll be the greatest man of the time.
my dear young lady,” rejoined the surgeon, mournfully shaking his head; “crime, like death, is not confined to the old and withered alone.
sowerberry, after several deferential glances at his wife, said, “my dear—” he was going to say more; but, mrs.
you will be kind and good to him, for you are to every one,” said oliver.
in a little community like ours, my dear,” said fagin, who felt it necessary to qualify this position, “we have a general number one, without considering me too as the same, and all the other young people.
but do you mean to say, my dear,” remonstrated the jew, “that the women can’t be got over?
i should have been very sorry not to have been at home when you and mr.
sikes propounded this question, was not one of those he had tenanted, previous to the chertsey expedition, although it was in the same quarter of the town, and was situated at no great distance from his former lodgings.
he will wake in an hour or so, i dare say; and although i have told that thick-headed constable-fellow downstairs that he musn’t be moved or spoken to, on peril of his life, i think we may converse with him without danger.
gamfield did happen to labour under the slight imputation of having bruised three or four boys to death already, it occurred to him that the board had, perhaps, in some unaccountable freak, taken it into their heads that this extraneous circumstance ought to influence their proceedings.
fagin will make something of you, though, or you’ll be the first he ever had that turned out unprofitable.
bumble stepped in; and ordering something to drink, as he passed the bar, entered the apartment into which he had looked from the street.
these fits come over me, now and then,” said monks, observing his alarm; “and thunder sometimes brings them on.
when it was concluded, she sank into her former attitude, but spoke not a word.
the jew was no sooner alone, than his countenance resumed its former expression of anxiety and thought.
were you looking for me,” he said, “when you peered in at the window?
do you mind that time when conkey was robbed of his money, though?
one of these papers was a letter to this girl agnes; the other a will.
being assisted by the doctor, he managed to sit up in bed for a minute or so; and looked at the strangers without at all understanding what was going forward—in fact, without seeming to recollect where he was, or what had been passing.
maylie, “where have you been, and why do you look so sad?
with these words he drew his chair closer to the table; and there the two friends sat, in silent expectation, with the watch between them.
but, then, the thought darted across his mind that it was barely eleven o’clock; and that many people were still in the streets: of whom surely some might be found to give credence to his tale.
bumble had re-counted the teaspoons, re-weighed the sugar-tongs, made a closer inspection of the milk-pot, and ascertained to a nicety the exact condition of the furniture, down to the very horse-hair seats of the chairs; and had repeated each process full half a dozen times; before he began to think that it was time for mrs.
giles, that on the day before that on which i was called away so hurriedly, i executed, at the request of your good mistress, a small commission in your favour.
brownlow led the way into another room; and there, heard from rose a full narration of her interview with nancy, which occasioned him no little surprise and perplexity.
he replied to their salutations in the same way; but bestowed no closer recognition until he reached the further end of the alley; when he stopped, to address a salesman of small stature, who had squeezed as much of his person into a child’s chair as the chair would hold, and was smoking a pipe at his warehouse door.
having seen him safely carried into the hotel, he turned his face homewards, running as fast as he could, to make up for lost time: and recalling with a great deal of astonishment and some fear, the extraordinary behaviour of the person from whom he had just parted.
if you knew what i am sometimes, you would pity me, indeed.
he disengaged himself from the old woman’s grasp; and, drawing oliver after him, hurried away.
sikes’ dog, there exist strong and singular points of resemblance.
she’s bid havid a plate of boiled beef id the bar,” replied barney.
let me go into some other room,” said the boy, retreating still farther.
oliver having “caught it,” in fulfilment of noah’s prediction, followed that young gentleman down the stairs to breakfast.
he fired his own pistol after the men, who were already retreating; and dragged the boy up.
you may burn a candle,” said the jew, putting one upon the table.
corney as he said this; and if ever a beadle looked tender, mr.
fagin,” said sikes, abruptly breaking the stillness that prevailed; “is it worth fifty shiners extra, if it’s safely done from the outside?
all the livelong day, and for hours after it had grown dark, oliver paced softly up and down the garden, raising his eyes every instant to the sick chamber, and shuddering to see the darkened window, looking as if death lay stretched inside.
the first we’ve both got; the second you must find us.
he looked anxiously round; not an article of furniture; not a vestige of anything, animate or inanimate; not even the position of the cupboards; answered oliver’s description!
he tottered across the lawn; climbed the steps; knocked faintly at the door; and, his whole strength failing him, sunk down against one of the pillars of the little portico.
bumble in the outset of a tirade on the subject of poor oliver’s vices.
brownlow, “to return to the subject in which your humanity is so much interested.
bumble was cunning enough; and he at once saw that an opportunity was opened, for the lucrative disposal of some secret in the possession of his better half.
the bulk of his property he divided into two equal portions—one for agnes fleming, and the other for their child, if it should be born alive, and ever come of age.
he knows you,” replied the girl; “and knew you were here, for it was by hearing him tell the place that i found you out.
nancy, my dear,” said the jew in a soothing manner, “what do _you_ say?
but where can i find you again when it is necessary?
bumble rushed into the room in great excitement, and addressing the gentleman in the high chair, said, “mr.
she remembered that both the crafty jew and the brutal sikes had confided to her schemes, which had been hidden from all others: in the full confidence that she was trustworthy and beyond the reach of their suspicion.
besides ourselves, there’s not a creature in the house except toby and the boys; and they’re safe enough.
bedwin followed him to the street-door, giving him many directions about the nearest way, and the name of the bookseller, and the name of the street: all of which oliver said he clearly understood.
having buttoned up the bank-note in his jacket pocket, and placed the books carefully under his arm, he made a respectful bow, and left the room.
from early in the evening until nearly midnight, little groups of two and three presented themselves at the lodge-gate, and inquired, with anxious faces, whether any reprieve had been received.
oliver and the girl returned, in a breathless state, to report that there were no tidings of him.
yes,” added the second, “and it was a ‘locket and gold ring.
bumble entered the shop; and supporting his cane against the counter, drew forth his large leathern pocket-book: from which he selected a small scrap of paper, which he handed over to sowerberry.
the day had been unfavourable, and at that hour and place there were few people stirring.
corney was particularly proof against eagle glances; are matters of opinion.
yer speak as if yer were in earnest,” replied noah.
the lights in the shops could scarecely struggle through the heavy mist, which thickened every moment and shrouded the streets and houses in gloom; rendering the strange place still stranger in oliver’s eyes; and making his uncertainty the more dismal and depressing.
he _could not_ walk on, till daylight came again; and here he stretched himself close to the wall—to undergo new torture.
people spoke in whispers; anxious faces appeared at the gate, from time to time; women and children went away in tears.
bedwin had him carried downstairs into the little housekeeper’s room, which belonged to her.
brownlow; “and enclosed in a few short lines to you, with an intimation on the cover of the package that it was not to be forwarded till after he was dead.
with this view he gave a kick at the outside, by way of prelude; and, then, applying his mouth to the keyhole, said, in a deep and impressive tone: “oliver!
the moment the noise ceased, she glided from the room; ascended the stairs with incredible softness and silence; and was lost in the gloom above.
this is powder; that ’ere’s a bullet; and this is a little bit of a old hat for waddin’.
how,” thought fagin, as he crept homeward, “can i increase my influence with her?
the jew inflicted a smart blow on oliver’s shoulders with the club; and was raising it for a second, when the girl, rushing forward, wrested it from his hand.
brownlow; “placing this poor girl entirely out of the question, and supposing it were possible to bring these scoundrels to justice without compromising her safety, what good should we bring about?
when he began to undo the chain, the legs desisted, and a voice began.